##### 2.3.0 Changelog


#### New Features

 * ![71761] Allow combined files to be disabled
 * ![70697] CRM Security with two levels: viewable and writeable.
 * ![70422] added silverstripe version number to meta generator tag
 * ![70142] add permission control for !AddForm and !EditForm
 * ![69687] added Smiliey support to BBCode / forum. Now BBCode supports :) :P :D :( 8-) and :^). Yays for icons. Should
move from BBCodeParser to !TextParser so its available in tinymce but this will do for the forum
 * ![66163] #1531 - Allow moving files in root assets file (hamish)
 * ![65904] #1614: Allow use of admin/addpage?ParentID=(ID)&!PageType=(Class) url to quick-add pages
 * ![65690] #594: Added javascript-on-demand support
 * ![65689] #594: Added javascript-on-demand support
 * ![65688] #594: Added javascript-on-demand support
 * ![65555] #2767 wakeless: Allow popuplation of non-!DataObject tables with !YamlFixture
 * ![65351] merged back patch for image editor. Currently completely broken on trunk this patch does nothing to fix it
sadly. I think its a prototype thing
 * ![65095] Added CMSMenu and CMSMenuItem and adjusted existing !LeftAndMain subclasses to use new notation.See #2872
(thanks to hamish for the patch!)
 * ![64881] Making !DataObject attributes translatable through i18n class, e.g. $db and all relation statics. Use
!DataObject->fieldLabels() to access translated attributes.
 * ![64877] Added !JavaScript unit tests with jQuery QUnit. Can be viewed similiarly to PHPUnit tests through
dev/jstests URL. Uses an `<iframe>` to include all tests.
 * ![64758] Update to TinyMCE 3.2 - CMS changes
 * ![64492] Support for i18n entity namespaces in templates
 * ![64480] Added support for 'sake dev/tests/all --showslow' to list slow tests
 * ![64473] Added ?debug_memory=1 flag
 * ![64461] Show max memory usage on dev/tests/all
 * ![64444] Flush template cache before running tests
 * ![64417] Added !SiteTreeMaintenanceTask
 * ![64345] #2956 seaeagle1: Added If-Modified-Since support to HTTP::add_cache_headers()                            
[16:00:18]
 * ![64308] Allowing for field-level permissions in !DataObject::$api_access - respecting those permissions for reading
and writing in !RestfulServer (#2918)
 * ![64307] Allowing for field-level permissions in !DataObject::$api_access - respecting those permissions for reading
and writing in !RestfulServer (#2918)
 * ![64231] #2951 simon_w: Use 301 redirect on Director::forceWWW()
 * ![64157] Added !FormScaffolder for more flexible scaffolding of !FieldSets from !DataObject metadata
 * ![64103] #2601 - More template handlers
 * ![63679] Added HTTP method override support to HTTPRequest and Form (through $_POST['_method'] or
$_SERVER['X-HTTP-Method-Override']), incl. unit tests
 * ![63659] Frontend CRUD scaffolding with !RecordController and !CollectionController (not fully functional yet, needs
correct Link() methods)
 * ![63637] Added coloured output to dev/tests/all
 * ![63623] Added !DataObject->getFormFields() - uses !DataObject->scaffoldFormFields() by default. Added
!DataObjectDecorator->updateFormFields() for easy customization
 * ![63462] Added Email::obfuscate()
 * ![62477] Including Firebug Lite when requested by ?debug_firebug=1 for easy debugging in IE/Opera/Safari- otherwise
including fake-objects with FirebugX by default to enable usage of console.* commands without javascript errors
 * ![62472] Added !GoogleSitemap::enable()
 * ![62467] Formatting MySQL error messages with newlines through new SQLFormatter class (used in !MySQLDatabase)
 * ![62458] Allow Use of ?fields=ID,Name,!OtherField,!RelName get variable on RESTful server queries, to restrict the
fields and relations returned int the data set
 * ![62396] Added !BulkLoader_Result for better inspection of import results, replacing the simple numeric count result
format.
 * ![62333] TableListField's TRs can now have class=loading added to them to show a loading icon. (Used by !ModelAdmin)
 * ![62286] Allow customisation of HTTPResponse status text, as well as status code
 * ![62284] Files & Images tree now shows filename rather than meta-data title, to make it easier to find the file
you're looking for
 * ![62211] #1403 - addFieldToTab(), push(), insertBefore(), etc will allow duplicates - the old field is replaced with
the new.
 * ![61824] #2594 - Allow decoration of getCMSActions() (simon_w)
 * ![61605] relate groups with column selections in !SearchForm of CRM Admin
 * ![61444] xml2array now works with recursion so it will actually work with most xml files. Unit tests to comei
 * ![60396] Added configurable Requirements::$write_js_to_body for performance improvements (turned off by default)
 * ![60368] Improved debugging view on CLI interface, by having a separate !DebugView subclass that takes care of error
output for this situation.
 * ![60220] Merged in !CompositeDBField


#### API Change

 * ![70697] add Group::canView() so that give group object a different level of security control.
 * ![70150] we move the filedata generation part of export() function to a new function generateExportFileData, so that,
a child class could reuse the function when overload export function
 * ![70057] Decimal->requireField now includes 'not null' constraint, as Sapphire doesn't expect the value to be null.
MySQL switches null values to 0.00 on build.
 * ![69730] Removed access to broken image editor feature
 * ![69688] Enforcing usage of a Validator instance in Forms if its not explicitly passed to the Form constructor. By
default a new !RequiredField instance is used without any fields marked as required. This was necessary because some
!FormField implementations rely on their validate() method, sometimes as a wrongly placed processing hook, but mostly
for security reasons. One example are file extension checks in !FileField subclasses.
 * ![69363] Added !ModelAdmin_!CollectionController::columsnAvailable() and
!ModelAdmin_!CollectionController::columnsSelectedByDefault() that can be overridden to customise the fields available
in the column selection control.
 * ![69360] Add keyField and titleField arguments to SQLMap
 * ![68484] ContentNegotiator is now disabled by default, unless you include the xml header in your template. (merged
from r68482)
 * ![67426] Added SSViewer::set_source_file_comments() to allow disabling of comments in SSViewer output
 * ![67380] Deprecated Email->setFormat()
 * ![66894] Move some of the installer into the sapphire directory.
 * ![66394] 
 * ![66392] if a !DataObject has getCMSActions, its model admin should be able to add them.
 * ![66268] Deprecated Controller::!PastVisitor(), it generates a lot of unused cookies
 * ![66266] Improve encapsulation of cookies in Director::test()
 * ![66264] Revamped CMSMenu system to not instantiate any objects, so that _config.php doesn't get fskd
 * ![66175] Moving !GoogleSitemap functionality into new "googlesitemaps" module
 * ![65744] make !CreateForm be able to disable
 * ![65742] introduce !SearchFilter::getDbFormattedValue() and !GreateThanFilter will used this method to make the qurey
so that it can apply to a field that input format is different that its db format, such as !CalendarDateField.
 * ![65669] even when no results found, the HTTPResponse should return a "200" HTTPResponse rather than "404"
HTTPResponse, otherwise, the right panel didn't refresh the result table, and the error message shows up.
 * ![65581] Deprecated !CompositeField->insertBeforeRecursive(), use !CompositeField->insertBefore()
 * ![65554] tidy up !NewsletterAdmin.
 * ![65454] Deprecated !DataObjectDecorator->augmentInit(), use !LeftAndMainDecorator->init()
 * ![65453] Deprecated !DataObjectDecorator->alternateCanCreate(), use !DataObjectDecorator->canCreate()
 * ![65452] Removed Folder->userCan*() and File->userCan*()permissions and added more consistent behaviour with
Folder->can*() and File->can*()
 * ![65451] Don't include NULL returns in decorated methods called through Object->extend(), meaning empty method bodies
in decorators won't confuse permission checks through $myObj->extend('canView') etc.
 * ![65388] make !DataObject::getField() visible to the public
 * ![65385] Removed manifest's dependency on database, by removing hastable information                                 
               [17:47:04]
 * ![65229] Use return value of alternateCanPublish()
 * ![65150] Changed !SiteTree->!EditorsGroup has_one relationship to !SiteTree->!EditorGroups has_many relationship (see
#2847)
 * ![65095] Removed !LeftAndMain::add_menu_item(), !LeftAndMain::remove_menu_item(), !LeftAndMain::replace_menu_item(),
!LeftAndMain::clear_menu()
 * ![65068] Removed !DataObjectSet->consolidate(), use !DataObjectSet->toNestedArray()
 * ![65066] Removed !DataObjectSet->consolidateString()
 * ![65065] Renamed !DataObjectDecorator->extraDBFields() to extraStatics()
 * ![65060] Moved !DataObject::get_by_url() to !SiteTree::get_by_url()
 * ![65059] Marked !DataObject->filledOut() deprecated
 * ![64958] #2922: !RequestHandler:: now inherit
 * ![64954] #2857 - Renamed !RequestHandlingData to !RequestHandler
 * ![64953] #2857 - Renamed !RequestHandlingData to !RequestHandler
 * ![64951] #2698 ajshort: URL handler only passes control to subclasses of !RequestHandlingData
 * ![64807] Added !LastChange() method to !BulkLoader_Result
 * ![64806] Updated !CsvBulkLoader to have hasHeaderRow = true by default, even when a columnMap is specified
 * ![64805] add updateFieldLabels() to !DataObjectDecorator, so as that a dataobject could update fieldLables by its
decorator.
 * ![64792] A Text db field, by default, should be rendered as a !TextareaField in its scaffoldForm
 * ![64528] delete !GenericDataAdmin, !RelatedDataEditor, !DropdownField_!WithAdd and their related code (js, css, etc)
from cms, sapphire, "!GenericDataAdmin" name space has also been deleted from lang files. They are all added in the new
module "genericdataadmin"
 * ![64504] Changed HTMLVarchar->scaffoldFormField() to use !HtmlEditorField instead of !HtmlOneLineField, which does
not work.
 * ![64428] Moved !CheckboxFieldDisabled class to more common !CheckboxField_Disabled notation
 * ![64426] Removed !NoScriptField, please use !LiteralField
 * ![64425] Removed !EncryptField, use !PasswordField
 * ![64421] Moved setAllowHTML() to !DataLessField
 * ![64420] Removed !NamedLabelField, use !LabelField
 * ![64416] Removed !SiteTree->makelinksunique() and !SiteTree->makelinksuniquequick() - use new
!SiteTreeMaintenanceTask
 * ![64407] Removed !NoScriptFormAction, use unobtrusive scripting
 * ![64402] Removed deprecated File::loadallcontent(), use Upload class
 * ![64401] Removed Filesystem::moverootfilesto()
 * ![64399] Removed deprecated !ComplexRequiredFields, use !RequiredFields and custom javascript instead
 * ![64398] Removed !SecurityAdmin->listmembers()
 * ![64394] Removed deprecated Datetime class, use SSDatetime instead (was conflicting with PHP 5.2 integrated classes)
 * ![64384] Removed Email_Template, use Email
 * ![64383] Removed !ViewableData->setVal(), use !ViewableData->setValue()
 * ![64381] Removed Debug::mailBuffer()
 * ![64380] Removed Director::isLiveMode(), use Director::isLive()
 * ![64379] Removed !FormField->setExtraClass(), use !FormField->addExtraClass()
 * ![64378] Removed !DataObjectSet->append(), use !DataObjectSet->push() or !DataObjectSet->merge()
 * ![64377] Removed Controller->!LinkTo(), use Controller->join_links()
 * ![64376] Removed Image->transferlegacycontent()
 * ![64375] Removed !DataObject->getLastWriteFields(), use !DataObject->getChangedFields()
 * ![64374] Removed  Convert::raw2attr(), use Convert::raw2att()
 * ![64373] Removed deprecated !RestfulService->connect(), use !RestfulService->request()
 * ![64372] Removed deprecated !CustomValidator class
 * ![64371] Removed deprecated !EditForm classa
 * ![64351] #551: Move code from CMSMain to !SiteTree
 * ![64350] #551: Move code from CMSMain to !SiteTree
 * ![64332] Removed deprecated methods related to CanCMS and !CanCMSAdmin which are now removed from the Group class in
favour of the Permission system
 * ![64330] Removed deprecated method isAdmin() on Member - use Permission::check('ADMIN') instead
 * ![64327] Removed references to CanCMS and !CanCMSAdmin in Group, including references to it in Member. See ticket
#2959 for more details.
 * ![64157] Added third optional parameter $object to DBField::create() to comply with !ForeignKey and !PrimaryKey
constructors
 * ![63997] Deprecated !GhostPage
 * ![63922] Added support for dot syntax to !FieldSet::fieldByName()
 * ![63827] Added initial CMS tests to the system.  These will execute tests on the data model provided by a user's
project code
 * ![63764] Deprecated Form->loadNonBlankDataFrom() - it was duplicating loadDataFrom() without allowing for the same
options, and it was buggy in its definition of "blank" by doing non-typesafe checks with if($value)
$field->setValue($value) which resulted in '0' strings not being loaded
 * ![63759] Moved !PostBackup class to module (see r63758)
 * ![63637] Added SSCli class to help with outputting coloured text on the command line
 * ![63579] Deprecated HTTP::sendFileToBrowser() in favour of more testable HTTPRequest::send_file()
 * ![63563] Created CSVParser class and updated CSVBulkLoader to use it
 * ![63468] Deprecated Form->resetData() - use Form->resetField()
 * ![63465] Changed parameters for Debug::friendlyError()
 * ![63337] Deprecated !DataObject->listOfFields() - use custom code instead
 * ![63310] Removed !SiteTree->canView_page() - originally created under the false assumption that
!SiteTree->can('view_page') is still valid. Every canView() can be instance specific. Original patch by simon_w in
r53183 and #2198
 * ![63182] Deprecated URL parameter ?buildmanifest=1 (please use ?flush=1)
 * ![63177] Removed Text->Att(), use Text->ATT_val() instead
 * ![63176] Deprecated Varchar->Attr(), use Varchar->ATT_val() instead
 * ![63077] Removed useless File->test() method
 * ![62883] TableListField::sourceFilter() can be overloaded to change the querying logic.
 * ![62847] Deprecated Member::isInGroup() - use Member::inGroup() instead
 * ![62846] Deprecated Member::isInGroup() - use Member::inGroup() instead
 * ![62843] Removed Debug::warning()
 * ![62325] Moved !DataReport and SQLReport into the ecommerce module, since this is the only place it is used, plus
it's going to be deprecated soon anyway
 * ![62324] Moved !DataReport and SQLReport into the ecommerce module, since this is the only place it is used, plus
it's going to be deprecated soon anyway
 * ![62316] Deprecated !LabelledLiteralField by adding a @deprecated note with alternate approaches, and added a PHP
notice for people currently using it
 * ![62309] Moved !ProgressBar and support files to newsletter/trunk module, as this is the module where it's used
 * ![61683] TableListField::ajax_refresh is deprecated.  Removed all calls to it from the core, instead getting HTML
fragments by visiting the field's URL.
 * ![61632] BasicAuth is now disabled by default on test sites
 * ![61505] Allow definition of !DataObject::getCMSAddFormFields() to alter modeladmin step 1
 * ![61485] Deprecated !GroupedDropdownField, !DropdownField should now be used instead
 * ![60894] Added Validator::set_javascript_validation_handler() and ->setJavscriptValidatorHandler(), to choose a
different way of dealing with javascript validation.  Currently 'none' and 'prototype' are the only legal options, but
'jquery' would be an obvious thing to implement.
 * ![60711] Template precedence changed.  Page_results now takes precedence over !HomePage.  That is, all action
templates of parent classes take precedence over the actionless templates.
 * ![60665] TableListField utility links no longer have target=_blank
 * ![60405] Removed merged USZipCode field -  should be custom code until we figure out proper localization
 * ![60392] Renamed static Member::autologinhash() to static Member::member_from_autloginhash() to be more in line with
naming convnetions, and not conflict with Member.!AutoLoginHash in the database
 * ![60376] Allow the definition of SS_ERROR_LOG in _ss_environment.php to set up Debug::log_errors_to().
 * ![60368] Added Debug::log_errors_to(), to log errors to a file.


#### Bugfixes

 * ![71923] In SSViewer::parseTemplateContent($content, $template=""), when the $content is a xml template, we should
not wrap anything around it, for web browser able to correct parse the xml
 * ![71872] #3491 - Fix nonexistant plugin stopping tinymce from working in safari.
 * ![71846] #3481 - Check if classes exist before trying to instantiate a singleton on database build, to work around
stale manifest errors
 * ![71841] #2723 - Allow more than more subclass of !RelationComplexTableField on a page at a time.
 * ![71797] removed doubled up pipes and border on switch view links in footer.
 * ![71764] Fix wrong conditional
 * ![71709] BUGFIX Fixed redirection to external URLs through Security/login with BackURL parameter (merged from trunk
 * ![71642] Disable !DataObject validation temporarily while importing yaml fixtures
 * ![71568] CRM "select all" and "select none" doesn't work when the crm manages multiple models.
 * ![71499] i18n::include_by_locale() should skip check the web root level and ../webroot level for language file, this
is not only "not necessary" but also "must" because some server configuration prevent from any file access above the
site root folder.
 * ![71436] Error adding custom header in Email because of non-existant array key. Thanks ed! Ticket #3485
 * ![71348] Removed unused !ComplexTableField->unpagedSourceItems - was already commented out in r70956, and doesn't
seem to be used across parent- or subclasses. Added ticket #3484 to re-enable popup pagination, which was broken and
disabled due to the deprecation of $unpagedSourceItems (see r53830)
 * ![71250] fixed site page restoration
 * ![71177] cms ui, fixed loading spinner style
 * ![71024] #3429: Fixed CMS change detection
 * ![71023] #3443: Fixed refreshing of relation CTFs after editing data
 * ![71018] #3442: Fix pagination in !HasManyComplexTable, !HasOneComplexTableField, !ManyManyComplexTable
 * ![70997] #3441 funkygibbon: Stop !ThumbnailStripField breaking on orphaned images
 * ![70994] CMS UI site content > search > add criteria select element now returns back to prompt & tweaked layout
 * ![70935] adjust positioning of !SilverStripeNavigator published/draft message
 * ![70895] Ensure string "0" is not considered a NULL value when !CsvBulkLoader imports values from a CSV file
 * ![70893] reinstating silverstripe navigator and restyling to match cms ui
 * ![70891] removed extra colon appearing in !SilverStripeNavigator
 * ![70848] Removed reference to Requirements::javascript() for including jquery as it's already included, and causes JS
errors in !MemberLoginForm
 * ![70847] Fixed correct path to jquery.js in !MemberLoginForm
 * ![70832] $hide_ancestor hides Page as well when set from multiple subclasses of Page. Thanks dio5!
 * ![70784] #3415 ajshort: Requesting root page via ajax now preserves isAjax value.
 * ![70781] #3430 page versions don't appear automatically in Safari - versions DOM panel was floated behind the edit
form
 * ![70775] Fixed "cancel" button for inline "create folder" functionality (was not stopping event in IE7)
 * ![70773] Disabled faulty usage of setStyle() with object literals instead of strings in SWFUpload
 * ![70766] Removed hack that hid the Avatar field for the forum
 * ![70750] Fix incorrect URL when adding a new Member via the !MemberTableField
 * ![70747] 
 * ![70743] 1. !TableListField exportfunality random bug. 2. make Email_!BounceRecord::canCreate() return false; so that
it can not be manully create from CRM, instead, it should create through email buncing system.
 * ![70741] 
 * ![70729] Add !EditForm to list of allowed actions
 * ![70725] 
 * ![70724] Fixed loader_frame.html scrollbar madness. Removed hacked CSS and tidied up popup to work in IE6/7 and
Firefox consistently
 * ![70698] Group::!AllChildrenIncludingDeleted() should filter on canEdit() rather than a can() call
 * ![70695] $_POST[$this->Name] in !TableField::!SubmittedFieldSet are not always set
 * ![70691] show flash icon and box if flash file exists. MINOR: created a default editor.css file which has base css
styles for the CMS.
 * ![70683] cms ui added colon to image upload prompt (inline with other step)
 * ![70682] cms ui remove errant dashed borders in IE6
 * ![70681] cms ui text size in righthand image panel
 * ![70680] Fixed behaviour.reapply() call in !TableListField->refresh() javascript to applyToParent (the actual DOM
container). Otherwise methods of the !TableListField prototypes aren't properly attached to the DOM nodes, which causes
problems like #3377
 * ![70671] Fixed newsletter send button alignment
 * ![70616] stopped double scrollbars on popups in IE7 (IE6 still broken)
 * ![70613] Fixed styling for "Delete selected files" in the left-hand tree actions for !AssetAdmin. Thanks ajshort!
 * ![70609] Defined jsValidation() and validate() so that inherited validation from !DateField doesn't break
!PopupDateTimeField - this still needs fixing, and !PopupDateTimeField shouldn't inherit from !CalendarDateField
 * ![70604] autocomplete style change.
 * ![70603] cms ui fix files & images upload images styling
 * ![70602] cms ui fix files & images table styling
 * ![70601] cms ui removed backgound from delete button on files & images
 * ![70583] cms ui fixing up treetool
 * ![70573] cms ui removed extra padding from bottom of tools
 * ![70572] cms ui fix styling of tools on files & images section
 * ![70567] cms ui fix styling of tools on files & images section
 * ![70566] reverted previous tree tool change
 * ![70565] when the total number of rows is 0 the pagination says 1 to 0 of 0
 * ![70563] cms ui fix styling of tools on files & images section
 * ![70561] cms ui padding on tree
 * ![70545] Hidden field needs to exist for !DateField_Disabled in order for validation to pass correctly
 * ![70541] cms ui padding on tree in right pane (eg. image selector)
 * ![70508] cms ui tidying up tree tools
 * ![70507] cms ui tidying up tree tools
 * ![70497] merged patch from ajshort. Fixed getURL() so it preserved the extension
 * ![70496] cms ui tidying up padding of tree tools elements
 * ![70495] cms ui fix specifivity of alignment of radio buttons and labels in right pane
 * ![70486] cms ui fix alignment of radio buttons and labels in right pane
 * ![70481] If __form.elements.ID is not defined, don't cause an error in the CMS under certain circumstances
 * ![70479] cms ui site tree tools style fix
 * ![70474] Fixed float issue caused by change in r70303
 * ![70445] fixed size of popup on 1024x768 resolutions
 * ![70441] added scroll bars
 * ![70404] site tree form element alignment
 * ![70397] stopped swfupload div appearing behind cms ui in firefox 2 on windows
 * ![70396] cms ui sitetree tools padding
 * ![70395] IE6 cms login remember me alignment
 * ![70393] cms ui sitetree padding across cms sections
 * ![70392] centered !GreyBox popup in the CMS
 * ![70390] cms ui form site tree input alignments
 * ![70389] cms ui form site tree input alignments
 * ![70388] cms ui fixed width of tools at top of site tree
 * ![70377] fixed site tree padding issue
 * ![70376] URL input validation for !RestfulServer
 * ![70356] fixed positioning on site tree actions on left tree for Security and comment tags
 * ![70172] due to changeset 65289 by phalkunz, the !ImportForm() and import() functions need to move from CRMAdmin
class to CRMAdmin_!CollectionController class, fix relative bugs by the move.
 * ![70160] Add workaround for PHP bug #46753
 * ![70135] Fixed spacing at the top of right forms in the CMS caused by the `<legend>` element. Fixed by hiding it via
CSS instead of removing it completely
 * ![70130] Fixed issue of not enough space in the !AssetAdmin "Upload" tab for multiple file uploading, mostly
affecting IE6/7
 * ![70127] Changed the !FieldHolder method to use explicit functionality instead of statically calling
!FormField::!FieldHolder()
 * ![70117] Fixed clearing issue in IE7 for the left hand tree
 * ![70077] Removed ANSI compatible SQL that shouldn't be in branches/2.3 - this feature is available in trunk
 * ![70063] Removed ID for back links table which is ambiguous, unncessary and caused the CSV export to break
 * ![70052] Deleted setting of $content variable that broke HTTP::findByTagAndAttribute()
 * ![70049] Strip out any "~" characters that may stop the staging link from working in IE6/IE7
 * ![70046] Check for form object before calling observe() on the element. The !CheckBoxRange constructor allows for a
null form, so a check for a form object is essential.
 * ![70026] Disallow execution from !DailyTask and !HourlyTask by website visitors.
 * ![69988] `<% end_if %>` was breaking the template where it should've been a `<% end_control %>`. This fixes the
export link in #3333
 * ![69986] Added page-limiting back to CMS tree querying
 * ![69975] Fixed !FileField->getFolderName() - it was not returning $this->folderName, instead it was returning an
undefined variable in error
 * ![69973] error when creating a form
 * ![69951] More solid string-parsing through regular expressions in SQLQuery->filtersOnID() and
SQLQuery->filtersOnFK(), incl. unit tests
 * ![69943] #3329: Improved speed of folder creation in files + images
 * ![69931] Fixed flash HTML that gets inserted into the content so it's cross browser compatible with browsers that
don't support the `<object>` tag (`<embed>` is added inside)
 * ![69930] Checkbox "Remeber me next time?" now works because of a missing method call logIn() on Member
 * ![69927] #3024 - Stopped style dropdowns from getting stuck by making them regular dropdowns. Not as pretty but more
stable.
 * ![69921] Fixed minor error on dev/buildcache
 * ![69910] Allowing to pass $context into Hierarchy->markPartialTree() and Hierarchy->markChildren()
 * ![69909] Making sure a valid !DataObjectSet is returned from Hierarchy->stageChildren()
 * ![69899] Explicitly setting "lang" as a GET var when getting a page within the CMS (if the language chooser DOM
object is available, hence translation mode is enabled). Used in CMSMain->init() to set the "current language". (merged
from branches/translatable in r64523, thanks wakeless!)
 * ![69894] Using baseDataClass() in Translatable::get_existing_content_languages()
 * ![69893] Added extension point for augmentAllChildrenIncludingDeleted(), augmentNumChildrenCountQuery(),
augmentStageChildren() in Hierarchy (merged from branches/translatable in r64523, thanks wakeless!)
 * ![69891] Using SQL DISTINCT in get_existing_content_languages()
 * ![69879] Fixed label positioning in !CompositeFields for original language fields in translation mode (was shifted
left before)
 * ![69878] Fixed $add_action behaviour for !SiteTree classes (through i18n_singular_name() method). Deprecated in
favour of "`<myclassname>`.TITLE" entity to enable localized page titles. Limited add_action behaviour to !SiteTree (was
implemented on !DataObject before)
 * ![69872] Fixed status checking in !SiteTree->getIsDeletedFromStage()/getIsModifiedOnStage()/getIsAddedToStage() for
new pages with non-numeric IDs
 * ![69870] Fixed use of undefined constant error, and undefined variable error in !TableField stopping CMS user from
adding records to a !TableField
 * ![69832] #3235: Fixed linking of images and other HTML tags
 * ![69830] #3219: dev/buildcache showing up in static links
 * ![69828] Fixed styling for caption checkbox field on the right hand image panel in CMSMain
 * ![69803] If !TreeDropdownField source object is "Folder", don't show "File" tree items unless the marking filter
function is explicitly set. This fixes the bug where files were appearing for selecting a folder in the thumbnailstrip
field in CMS
 * ![69752] somtimes +/- icons hidden. ticket #893
 * ![69728] #3254 - Fixed fatal errors when creating subclass of member
 * ![69720] #3199: No longer warned about saving changes if you have actually pressed save.
 * ![69718] #2550 - Fixed bug with draggability of newly created nodes.
 * ![69715] #2342: Database names with hyphens and other special characters can now be used.
 * ![69700] #3224 ajshort: Get HTTP::setGetVar() working with variables that contain array indexes
 * ![69697] #3165 nicolaas: Fixed Director::history() in some cases.
 * ![69696] #3248: Fixed !TreeDropdownField when using non-ID key field
 * ![69695] #3188: Fixed default !HeaderField name to be non-conflicting with other fields, for backward compat
 * ![69694] #3097: Removed buggy template feature
 * ![69693] #3249: Allow altering of encryption algorithm
 * ![69690] #3081 simon_w: Fixed pagination on spam comments
 * ![69689] Don't include Validator.js if Validator->javascriptValidationHandler is set to 'none' (in
Validator::__construct()).
 * ![69681] Fixed HTML insertion through TinyMCE in Safari - !TextArea fallback for lacking Codepress-support wasn't
working. Known bug in Codepress JS Highlighter, see
http://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=1913725&group_id=186981&atid=919470
 * ![69657] Fixed js error due to inlined inclusion of CMSMain_upload.js which was conflicting with inline
initialization. Disabled initializiation as the flash uploader was pulled out a while ago anyway (see #3251)
 * ![69504] Fixed !SiteTreeHandlers.loadTree_url url concatenation
 * ![69442] Fixed permissions in CMSMain->revert() - only needs edit permissions, not publish permissions
 * ![69378] CountryDropdownField now allows for title to be optional, which uses the name of the field if not set. This
makes it consistent with !DropdownField
 * ![69377] Added check before foreach() to fix potential HMCTF bugs
 * ![69360] Get !DrodpownField::$emptyString working when used with a SQLMap source
 * ![69321] Added `<td class="action">` to !AssetTableField.ss to comply with template semantics of parent classes
(necessary to detect javascript actions)
 * ![69222] Strip potential whitespace from the beginning and end of string before limiting word count in
Text->!LimitWordCount(), fixing potential interference with truncation process
 * ![69220] Fixed Text->!LimitWordCount() not returning the correct number of words in the truncated text.
 * ![69204] Making Password formfield in Member->getCMSFields() translatable
 * ![69203] Making "Main" tab in !FormScaffolder translatable
 * ![69065] Fixed notice-level error in no-get-var URL processing when there is no querystring.
 * ![68999] Make sure the website URL that the commenter posts has a correct "http://" or "http://" bit at the start of
the string
 * ![68940] Fixed bug in SQLQuery::unlimitedRowCount() when used with grouped queries, that should fix a lot of
pagination situations.
 * ![68935] Fixed PHP notice potential error in !MemberTableField->addtogroup()
 * ![68921] Turned english text into translatable entity for !PageCommentInterface link for RSS feed of all comments for
all pages
 * ![68890] "console not defined" error in IE in en_US.js, check typeof(console) is not undefined before calling
console.error()
 * ![68881] remove Debug::message
 * ![68875] Fix uglyness when title is longer than the tree dropdown field
 * ![68858] Added closing tags to relation XML in XMLDataFormatter. Was relying on !ContentNegotiator fixing
self-closing tags automatically, but this form of content parsing is disabled for xml content by default now (see
r68484)
 * ![68834] Make sure date is a string before trying to use strtotime
 * ![68817] Fixed sprintf detection bug in !SiteTree->getClassDropdown()
 * ![68810] Making only formfields readonly (not formactions) when comparing versions and showing historical versions
within CMSMain
 * ![68809] Check hasChanged method exists before calling it
 * ![68764] Fixed translation of !CommentAdmin_!SiteTree.ss
 * ![68762] Fixed label spacing in Date->!TimeDiff()
 * ![68757] Fixed additional tabs for image popus in !AssetTableField. They we're not being generated in non-english
interfaces due to the translated title being used as the tab identifier
 * ![68754] Limiting readonly transformation of form in CMSMain->!EditForm() to fields only (excluding actions).
!FormAction readonly transformations were fixed a while ago, which meant that they were actually enforced now, causing
unavailable cms actions in certain scenarios (e.g. with a page deleted from live, which should make the fields readonly,
but leave buttons functional)
 * ![68752] Fixed !TranslatableTest to instanciate Page instead of !SiteTree fixtures - pages in the database should
never have !ClassName=!SiteTree. This was causing failing tests due to the changes in !SiteTree->getClassDropdown()
 * ![68751] Including all translated language tables by default in i18n::_t() instead of selectively including modules
based on filename. This caused bugs where entities were located in language tables in a different module than their
filepath would suggest. Example: Page.SINGULARNAME is stored in sapphire/lang/en_US.php, while Page.php is stored in
mysite/Page.php
 * ![68746] Don't overwrite existing module arrays in i18nTextcollector - fixing bug with entities for "foreign modules"
being reset during parsing
 * ![68702] Updated CMS to support !HtmlEditorField changes in r68701
 * ![68662] #3166 jam13: Fixed caching in !RestfulService
 * ![68628] Fixed !HasManyComplexTableField/!ManyManyComplexTableField issue with source items which broke from changes
in r66080. Thanks hamish!
 * ![68627] Fixed javascript error in the CMS
 * ![68626] Fixed javascript error in the CMS
 * ![68603] Fixed new searchform changes for Live/Stage
 * ![68515] Making sure phpinstaller works on subdomains (see #3167)
 * ![68463] Fixed PHP notice in !RebuildStaticCacheTask
 * ![68331] Fixed !ModelAdmin import success message (too few arguments for sprintf())
 * ![68194] Allowing !FormAction instances to be readonly by setting disabled="disabled". Adding CSS class "disabled".
 * ![68177] Moved creation of "help" menu entry from cms/_config.php to !LeftAndMain::init() to get localized titles
(locale isn't set at _config.php level)
 * ![68176] Fixed i18n display of menu titles rendered by CMSMenu in !LeftAndMain->!MainMenu()
 * ![68170] Escape table name in versioned to allow creation of page type classes with the same names as SQL reserved
words
 * ![68159] Changing i18n entity format in CMSMenu->provideI18nEntities() to have actual class as namespace (related:
r66264)
 * ![68155] Added stub PDODatabase->renameField() implementation to avoid errors when batch-instanciating singletons
 * ![68130] Supporting URLs with folder-structure in "sake -start `<myprocessname>` `<myurl>`"
 * ![68039] Improved !DataObjectSet->!PaginationSummary() to show full context (instead of halved) when on first or last
page
 * ![68027] Don't show template comments in RSSFeed, or it'll break the XML document
 * ![68026] Fixed undefined variable $matches in SSViewer::parseTemplateContent()
 * ![68024] SSViewer::set_source_file_comments(false) wasn't working because of lack of checking if enabled.
 * ![67777] Added check ot i18n::include_by_class() to prevent repeated calls.
 * ![67681] Add a unique identifier to the "direction" method for Email::obfuscate() to avoid duplicate custom CSS being
included in the page header
 * ![67678] Method not found error. Requirements::customCSS() should be calling self::backend()->customCSS() not
custom()
 * ![67609] #3182 - Fix URL fixing on machines where url is case insensitive (hamish)
 * ![67605] #3204 - Broken link tracking is broken (ajshort)
 * ![67587] #3174 - Unable to drop widgets into widget areas in CMS (marcink)
 * ![67584] #3218 - Spelling mistake in !RestfulService (hamish)
 * ![67582] Fixed a check for CSV field formatting.
 * ![67580] Fixed an aliasing problem when saving popup items, and a bug with when associating a new record with the
parent ID associated with the field.
 * ![67530] SSDatetime can handle being given a NZ date in dd/mm/yyyy format
 * ![67529] Only setting !LockedOutUntil to NULL in Member->logIn() if the column is actually present in the database.
Otherwise this setting will case an UPDATE Member SQL query to fail on the first /dev/build call on a 2.2->2.3 upgrade
if not in dev-mode (=requiring login) (see #3171)
 * ![67526] Added $!CurrentLink to templates of !AssetTableField and !MemberTableField in order to support
auto-refreshing after popup-close (see #2925)
 * ![67520] Fixed i18n::get_owner_module() to detect template paths in themes (array notation) correctly (see #3022)
 * ![67519] Added !GoogleSitemap.ss from sapphire
 * ![67506] Avoid ugly border in CMS forms by adding "border: none" in CSS to cms/css/layout.css
 * ![67503] disabling template comments for xml output like sitemap.xml
 * ![67455] Fixed incorrect parameter variable name in Mailer->sendPlain()
 * ![67417] Added `<legend>` element immediately after `<fieldset>` for !SearchForm and Form templates. This is required
to validate these templates as W3C compliant
 * ![67401] Moving Requirements::combine_files() calls from cms/_config.php to !LeftAndMain->init() to avoid
side-effects in non-CMS contexts. Examples:
 * ![67363] $allowHTML argument was not passed to !DatalessField::__construct
 * ![67304] Since !ModelAsController->handleRequest() expects a URLSegment, we make the !ErrorPage Link() return a
relative URLSegment in !ErrorPage->publish()
 * ![67299] Changed Director::test($this->URLSegment) to Director::test($this->Link()) in !ErrorPage->publish() to be
more robust
 * ![67290] Added parent::setUp() and parent::tearDown() calls to various tests, in preparation for push/pop a mock
controller the controller-stack
 * ![67271] dev/build should function even when new classes are referenced in _config.php
 * ![67268] Filter on the baseclassid in Hierachy, not the class id, in case the class doesnt have a table (aoneil)
 * ![67221] Save default locale for new members, so the profile form doesn't show first available locale in dropdown
because its defaults are overwritten by Member->Locale = NULL (see #3159)
 * ![67201] Declared behaviour.js variables as local for better recursive functionality
 * ![67199] Fixed incorrect permission checking when the current member isn't being used
 * ![67162] Scrollbars didn't appear properly in CMS without resizing the window manually, so used jQuery to properly
detect when document is ready before attempting resize. Ticket #3089
 * ![67150] Checking for "$this instanceof !VirtualPage" instead of "$this->class == '!VirtualPage' to support
subclassing in !VirtualPage->onBeforeWrite()
 * ![67147] Fix requirements not being restored after an email is sent
 * ![67140] Checking for existence of $this->record in !VirtualPage_Controller->init()
 * ![67137] Fix publishing of error pages
 * ![67083] Fixed !StaticExporter output format
 * ![67078] Put the order of save and publish buttons back to normal (so save and publish are next to eachother)
 * ![67045] Fixed Enum::scaffoldSearchForm() to always include an (All) option
 * ![67035] Fixed error in javascript (because of commented out code) that broke IE6/7 in the CMS
 * ![66946] Fixing tests
 * ![66940] Fixed warning on !AssetAdmin (merged from trunk)
 * ![66922] #3100: Graceful degradation for codepress in safari
 * ![66918] #3115 ajshort: Fixed backslashes in temp folder location in manifest builder
 * ![66894] Friendlier error when you have a site running on a PHP4 server, or a server without PHP.
 * ![66891] Don't make blank dates show 1/1/1970
 * ![66888] Better generation of !PastMember cookie when you have stale login info
 * ![66828] Fixed sortWidgets() function in !WidgetAreaEditor not working because it was picking up comment nodes
 * ![66820] Added extension to email address when accessing Security/passwordsent since the . (dots) are split into
extensions when the URL is parsed
 * ![66799] Fixed importer not working because of i18n_singular_name(), just use the class name of the model instead
 * ![66793] Made use of Convert::raw2att() before returning the !ModelName for Import spec fields
 * ![66791] Fixed "Show specification..." link not working because !ModelName had spaces in it
 * ![66784] Only including !ModelAdmin->!ImportForm() if an actual importer was specified
 * ![66740] Passing through $member param from !SiteTree->canPublish() to !SiteTree->canEdit()
 * ![66723] fixed typo in filesystem
 * ![66707] Fixed notice-level errors in !PhoneNumberField
 * ![66701] Add !LeftAndMain:$url_rule to minimise bugs in modules
 * ![66698] Fixed sake bug when checking for an argument in bash script. Ticket #3112. Thanks simon_w.
 * ![66638] Fixed flaw logic checking for $member variable, since it's always set the alternative for choosing
Member::currentUser() would never work.
 * ![66635] Fixed !SiteTree->getCMSActions() so it returns a !FieldSet, instead of a !DataObjectSet. This makes it
consistent with !DataObject->getCMSActions() as well as !SiteTree->getCMSFields()
 * ![66632] Fixed !SiteTree->getCMSActions() not extending properly because it was passing an array to the extend() 2nd
argument, which expected a !FieldSet object
 * ![66629] Fixed incorrect class name in user_error message for deprecated function HTTP::sendFileToBrowser()
 * ![66608] ModelAdmin clear search now preserves the result column selection
 * ![66505] Consistenly returning cloned instances for all !FormField classes when calling
performReadonlyTransformation() or performDisabledTransformation(). Making sure that these instances are actually
flagged as readyonly/disabled. Addd unit tests to dynamically instanciate most !FormField classes to check for this
behaviour. Originally, this bugfix was necessary to avoid changed !FormField state when recursively calling
replaceField() on !FieldSet->dataFields() in Translatable->updateCMSFields()
 * ![66431] Removed !SearchForm->!FormMethod() and used $this->setFormMethod() in !SearchForm constructor instead which
is a nicer solution instead of overloading a Form method
 * ![66334] Hiding "change password" fields by default in admin/myprofile, they shouldn't validate the input by default.
Replaced with a link to toggle those fields (#3106)
 * ![66332] Include jquery_improvements.js whenever jquery.js is required, so jQuery.noConflict() is set. This is
required to ensure $() behaves in the prototypey way (alias for document.getElementByID()) rather than jQuery style
(document.getElementsBySelector())
 * ![66331] Removed overloaded $() function which added support for multiple string arguments in behaviour.js - was
conflicting with argument usage in jQuery when not in noConflict() mode. As far as i can tell, multiple string arguments
in $() were never used anyway.
 * ![66319] Removed dependency on !ComplexTableField JS in !LeftAndMain for "My Profile" popup
 * ![66318] Check if $member variable isn't empty before looking for first name in !MemberLoginForm
 * ![66317] Fixed call to incorrect case of function name, Member::currentUser() should be used
 * ![66313] Fixed !ForeignKey->scaffoldFormField() usage of model class instead of relation class to generate dropdown
list
 * ![66309] Fixed far too small height and width of "Profile" popup in CMS, popupHeight and popupWidth should be
defaultPopupHeight and defaultPopupWidth instead according to the !ComplexTableField prototype
 * ![66306] Fixed !HasManyComplexTableField, and subclass fields !HasOneComplexTableField and !ManyManyComplexTableField
saving bug because javascript wasn't being included properly
 * ![66305] Fixed recursion bug with !FieldSet::fieldPosition
 * ![66274] Improved reliability of !LeftAndMain->CMSVersion() - not failing on empty $URL$ placeholder with subversion
path to determine version numbers
 * ![66269] Merged from trunk; fix !DataObject::hasDatabaseFields()
 * ![66266] Fix test/cookie conflict in !ErrorPage rendering
 * ![66252] Immediately apply behaviours that are added after the Behaviour.apply() call, in Behaviour.register() calls
as well as Class.applyTo() calls
 * ![66251] Removed unnecessary and bug-causing Behaviour.apply() call.
 * ![66250] Made Behaviour.apply calls more specific
 * ![66229] Added flash button to tinymce_ssbuttons
 * ![66196] #2714 - Cookie::set doesn't operate correctly with expiryDays 0 (wakeless)
 * ![66195] #2694 - Mathspam question clear
 * ![66194] Fixed draggable bug in !AssetTableField - thanks for ajshort for the patch - ticket #3051
 * ![66162] #118 - Fixed count of marked pages (hamish)
 * ![66137] Fixed editable formfields not showing up in translation mode (#3083). Updated
Translatable->updateCMSFields() by partially merging wakeless' patch from (r64523)
 * ![66136] Disabled js code in CMSMain->switchlanguage() which was assuming wrong DOM structure (TODO: Replace with
more robust selectors)
 * ![66135] Fixed field labels for original readonly fields in translation mode
 * ![66107] Fixed PHP variable initialization in !SiteTree->getClassDropdown() which broke class dropdown in behaviour
tab (regression from r66092)
 * ![66091] $cache flag wasn't passend through from !ViewableData_Customised->XML_val() to !ViewableData->XML_val()
 * ![66079] #3051 ajshort: Improved layout of assettablefield drag icon
 * ![66070] Fixed HTTP->findByTagAndAttribute missing variable error causing !HtmlEditorField to break since it used
HTTP::getLinksIn()
 * ![66067] #3065: Fixed restore page
 * ![66066] #3012 jam13: Fixed tabstrip default tab selection when working with querystrings
 * ![66065] Fixed security tabs for JSoD code
 * ![66062] #3063: Allow old-school method of adding menu items to !LeftAndMiain:
 * ![66052] #3087 simon_w: Added !ResfulService::connect() back, for backward compatability
 * ![66049] Fixed unescaped html display in !DevelopmentAdmin (#3080)
 * ![66044] Fixed `<% require %>` call in !ModelAdmin_left.ss
 * ![66043] Fix PHP notice where variable with array didn't exist in HTTP->findByTagAndAttribute()
 * ![66029] use a undefined variable $member.
 * ![66027] Fixed incorrect call to Permission::checkMember() - missing second argument, first argument should've been a
Member object or Member ID
 * ![66026] Fixed PHP notice level error in some circumstances in !DataObject->buildDataObjectSet()
 * ![65944] #3073: Fixed !LeftAndMain::deleteitems()
 * ![65923] #3066: Fix ?isDev=1 option
 * ![65900] #2868: Fix after-popup-close behaviour on security member table
 * ![65899] #2820: Fixed use of buggy reflection in Object::uninherited()
 * ![65896] #2706: Fixed JS error in multi-nested pages deletion
 * ![65895] #2232: Prevent requirements from breaking !ErrorPage publication
 * ![65894] #1721: Fixed del/ins styling in page comparison
 * ![65881] Don't let permission errors on assets/ folder completely prevent javascript from loading
 * ![65865] Fixed tabstrip JS error in !ReportAdmin
 * ![65863] Ensure that menu items of the same priority show the first added item closes to the left
 * ![65860] Fixed JS error in !ReportAdmin
 * ![65851] #3062: Fixed ondemand support for jQuery responses as well as prototype
 * ![65850] Alow decoration of Member with has_many relationships
 * ![65843] #3062: Fixed ondemand support for jQuery responses as well as prototype
 * ![65842] #3061: Text.!FirstSentence returns '.' instead of empty string on an empty field
 * ![65827] Fixed flash uploader not searching for the correct files, due to changes in r65820
 * ![65825] Tidied up messages in flash uploader right hand panel in CMS
 * ![65769] Fixed deletion of !RedirectorPage
 * ![65763] Missing variable in some circumstances caused Requirements::include_in_response() to break
 * ![65761] Missing variable in some circumstances caused Requirements::include_in_response() to break
 * ![65711] Added support for CSS media types to CSS on demand
 * ![65680] there is no horizontal scroll bar for Model Admin right panel if the results table is long.
 * ![65671] temp fix for flash inserter.
 * ![65616] Fixed searching on sapphire/trunk due to Form changes - !FormAction was useless on !SearchForm anyway
 * ![65612] Removed offending $this->canEdit() which returned a boolean, not appropriate to be passed into
Member::mapInCMSGroups()
 * ![65583] Adjusted Translatable to api changes from r65581
 * ![65554] a lot of methods in this class now passed $params as HTTPRequest object, rather than as a array if the
function is called from Ajax or top-level of front-end, some method is called in both manner, ie. called from Ajax and
called internally as well, so we need to check $params type and do further process. This is a partial fix of open source
ticket #3035
 * ![65539] Setting correct user locale in !ImageField and !FileIframeField - the controller is separate from the CMS
context, so wasn't initialized with i18n (see #1727)
 * ![65538] Using '!SiteTree' classname instead of 'Page' in !UpgradeSiteTreePermissionSchemaTask to avoid clashes in
schema when Page.php has its own tables
 * ![65536] Making Metadata fields writeable in translation mode (see #2993)
 * ![65518] Removed project-specific hack in !DataObject->getManyManyComponentsQuery() as it was breaking Translatable
saving
 * ![65517] Fixed breadcrumb exploding in !DebugView when base-URL is "/" - was confusing the str_replace() logic
 * ![65515] Fixed Translatable::default_lang() call in CMSMain
 * ![65512] Fixed !SiteTreeMaintenanceTask from extending unkown class Task to extending Controller
 * ![65510] #3015: Fixed close buttons on tinymce side panels
 * ![65502] Fixed bug with // placement in CMSMenu Director rule generation
 * ![65469] Better initial-site-setup boundary condition checking needed after the manifest builder update
 * ![65462] Setting Director::set_site_mode('site') in !RootURLController in newly added init() method, which fixes
Translatable::choose_site_lang(). The original bug was a wrong selected language in the `<meta>` tags through
!SiteTree->!MetaTags()
 * ![65456] Using uncached !DataObject::get_one() calls in !ModelAsController to avoid stale data with subsequent
Director::test() calls which alter the page relations inbetween
 * ![65424] #2987 - IE8 support via IE7 compatability mode
 * ![65394] Fixed broken dev/build compilation of manifest
 * ![65361] Added SSViwer support for i18n namespaces in templates with `<% _t('!MyNamespace.!MyEntity', ... %>`, to
work around magically added namespaces from the parsed template file. Those auto-namespaces were logically not working
in includes, as the parsing context is always the including template. Legacy support for auto-namespaces is still
present due to its high usage.
 * ![65336] Making !ModelAdmin labels in left panel translatable again (regression from moving them into one common
panel)
 * ![65335] Respecting $dontEscape in !FormAction
 * ![65293] Using empty title in !TreeDropdownField->Field() if the related !DataObject cannot be found
 * ![65291] Reverted text replacement performance improvement in SQLQuery - it was replacing more ocurrences via
str_replace() than the previous implementation based on arrays, which broke queries augmented by Translatable
(originally committed in r60468 and r54044)
 * ![65282] Fixed page comment javascript to suit new Form name
 * ![65275] #2243: Fixed !ViewableData::Odd
 * ![65271] #2630 - Removed notice-level error
 * ![65269] #2954 - Fixed support for negative numbers in decimal fields
 * ![65250] #2992: Fixed T_PAAMAYIM_NEKUDOTAYIM error in !RequestHandler
 * ![65242] fixed canPublish() so it actually got the member if none was passed and fixed notice with $results not
existing
 * ![65232] #2056: Removed all references to deprecated Member::isAdmin()
 * ![65229] Allow DBField::__construct() without a name
 * ![65214] Remove !LeftAndMain entry from CMSMenu (#3014). Thanks to hamish for the patch!
 * ![65213] Only enforcing record-level permissions in !LeftAndMain if passed ID is numeric to avoid breaking
!AssetAdmin with string-based IDs (regression from r65152). See #3017
 * ![65212] Calling parent constructor in !ComplexTableField_!ItemRequest, was confusing !RequestHandler
 * ![65180] Add magic methods on !ModelAdmin to $allowed_actions (regression from r64988)
 * ![65174] MemberTableField use of sourceFilter should be treated as a string, not an array as per the API of
!TableListField
 * ![65152] Enforce permission checks in !LeftAndMain and CMSMain through
!SiteTree->canView()/canEdit()/canAddChildren()/canPublish()/canDelete() (see #2701)
 * ![65151] Fixed !SiteTreeAccess.js DOM IDs to field changes made in r65150
 * ![65150] Disallow !SiteTree->canEdit() if !SiteTree->canView() is not granted
 * ![65148] Fixed js error in !LeftAndMain_right.js when displaying readonly pages
 * ![65141] TableField delete row inconsistency with !TableListField which caused table fields to not fade the row out
 * ![65135] Fixed call to Member function that didn't exist
 * ![65127] Fix potential PHP notice opening a !ComplexTableField popup
 * ![65123] Fixed bug with ID-less generation of !YamlFixture entries that trigger $this->write() in setters
 * ![65106] Setting menu titles for CMSMenu items in !LeftAndMain::init() to get translated values for the current user
locale (see #2873)
 * ![65104] Fixed menu titles entity references in CMSMain and !AssetAdmin
 * ![65094] Fixed !SearchContextTest to comply to new scaffolded searchfield in Text DBFIeld
 * ![65071] Reverted auto-detection of i18n statics like $db in !DataObject through provideI18nEntities() - was getting
too complicated with decorated properties. Overload !DataObject->fieldLabels() or
!DataObjectDecorator->updateFieldLabels() instead
 * ![65063] Checking for array existence before iterating through !DataObjectDecorator->provideI18nEntities()
 * ![65062] Dont instanciate abstract classes in i18nTextCollector
 * ![65061] Using !SiteTree::get_by_url() (see r65060)
 * ![65057] Collecting i18n entities for decorators separately from the decorated classes, as decorated properties like
$db have to be stored in the module of the decorated, not in the module of the decorated class.
 * ![65030] Different class_implements() usage without instanciating the class in i18nTextCollector - not all classes
are instanciatable without arguments. This raises the minimum requirement for text collection to PHP 5.1+
 * ![65028] Fixed !SecurityAdminTest to work with i18n enabled
 * ![65026] Fixed !CsvBulkLoaderTest to comply to hasHeaderRow API change (r64806)
 * ![65024] Fixed CMSMainTest to check for translated entities to avoid failing tests with i18n enabled
 * ![65023] Changed i18nTextCollectorTest to only trigger _t() calls in instance methods (they don't fully work in
__construct()). Manually adding !ClassInfo state for the fakewebroot needed to test textcollection -
!ManifestBuilder/!ClassInfo currently don't support setting of other webroots, or flexible inclusion/exclusion of
certain subfolders which would be necessary to do this without hacks.
 * ![64981] Don't allow calling of magically added methods via URL unless explicitly listed in allowed_actions
 * ![64976] Fixed wrong case of class names for !ImageIFrameField causing errors
 * ![64879] Fixed title-handling in !FormAction, regression from r64410
 * ![64878] Fixed missing $H() reference in i18n.js (#2989)
 * ![64850] Avoid ajax evaluator errors by checking if $resizedImage actually exists before calling relativePath() on it
 * ![64812] Content wasn't saving on subsequent page loads, after TinyMCE3 upgrade
 * ![64798] Fix !DataObject::write() with a specified ID and forceInsert to be true
 * ![64788] in IE, overflow left pane is hidden and cannot enable scrollbar
 * ![64771] Made !ContentController work properly if it doesn't have a dataRecord
 * ![64770] merged patch from ajshort to fix checkbox fields in the cms
 * ![64754] Fixed old references to !GenericDataAdmin in !ModelAdmin.php and !ModelAdmin_Results.ss
 * ![64739] Security->passwordsent() didn't get the "Email" variable from the URL properly, because of updates to
HTTPRequest
 * ![64736] Fixed non-object or not null error in !TreeSelectorField
 * ![64732] New folders weren't getting their name set correctly, instead they would just be called "!NewFolder". This
occurred in the Site Content section of the CMS, creating a folder using the right hand panel in that section.
 * ![64604] Fixed incorrectly reverted methods related to sizing of the popup.
 * ![64601] Fixed extra class addition on various !FormField->Field() methods
 * ![64562] Using include_once() instead of include() for _ss_environment.php in install.php and Core.php to avoid PHP
notice errors about double constant defines (see r64561)
 * ![64506] Renamed "Save & Publish" to "Save and Publish" since this value is used in the value attribute of input
elements, properly parsed, this would produce &amp; instead of &
 * ![64494] Fixed distribution of textcollector files to modules (was collecting all entities into all modules before) -
added unit tests
 * ![64491] Fixed wrongly formatted _t() call in Security class
 * ![64490] Fixed $module parameter for i18nTextCollectorTask
 * ![64471] Fix issue with language files not being included
 * ![64467] Removed duplicate setValue() method on Time (was supposed to be deleted instead of renamed from setVal() to
setValue())
 * ![64466] posix_isatty sometimes returns a benign error
 * ![64462] Don't run migration code for permissions if the old field doesn't exist.
 * ![64443] Fixed !RestfulServerTest fixture path
 * ![64440] Unit tests for !RestfulServer (see r64439)
 * ![64439] Returning 409 Conflict HTTP Header when trying to create a resource on an existing URL through
!RestfulServer
 * ![64438] Removed $headingLevel reference from !LabelField (was supposed to go into !HeaderField)
 * ![64437] Second constructor argument $title for !HeaderField should be optional for legacy reasons
 * ![64427] Using !PasswordField instead of deprecated !EncryptField
 * ![64423] Adjusted !HeaderField and !LabelField implementation to new constructor arguments (see r64421)
 * ![64422] Adjusted !HeaderField and !LabelField implementation to new constructor arguments (see r64421)
 * ![64361] #2963 - Fix RSSFeed to work with new add_cache_headers
 * ![64334] Reverted Member->isAdmin() removal since it's being used in a lot of places, we shouldn't deprecated it...
yet.
 * ![64329] correct wrong syntax of !TableField class in its frontend javascript
 * ![64328] avoid a CSSClass is added to a veiwable data twice.
 * ![64325] $this->extraData is not alway set for an !TableField_Item
 * ![64320] If !DropdownField->Field() lack of source checking before looping through it
 * ![64318] Fixed !DropdownField handling of Iterator objects rather than arrays in the newly created getSource()
 * ![64314] If ajaxActionsOnTop is called twice, the actions are removed.
 * ![64313] Don't use singleton() to create !DataFormatter instances, as it will cause weird side-effects with multiple
formatter instances with different parameters (broke subsequent test runs of !RestfulServerTest and
!SoapModelAccessTest) - all aboard the failboat!
 * ![64310] Unsetting $_SERVER globals in !RestfulServerTest to avoid side-effects across unit tests
 * ![64309] Added !RestfulServerTest->testApiAccessBoolean()
 * ![64307] Fixed !RestfulServerTest->testAuthenticatedGET()
 * ![64275] fixed default_country_value so that it will actually call the default country if IP lookup doesnt work
 * ![64263] Fix disappearing fields when a field without a name was being pushed onto a !FieldSet (eg a !CompositeField)
 * ![64251] Fixed !ComplexTableField->saveComplexTableField() success message object link - was assuming same context as
!ComplexTableField_!ItemRequest
 * ![64239] Adjusted !ForeignKey->scaffoldFormField() to new scaffolding notation ("ajaxSafe" instead of "ajax")
 * ![64237] Fixed !FormScaffolder string literal parsing FALE in getFieldSet()
 * ![64229] Storing HTTP "Referer" header from $_SERVER in Director::direct() and passing it along in Director::test()
 * ![64228] Checking for an empty array for $postVars in Director::test() to determine HTTP method - an existing array
should cause POST rather than GET, even if its empty
 * ![64227] Fixed stupid ommission from r64223 which caused HTTPRequest to construct without a proper URL
 * ![64224] Using fieldLabel() for $has_one relationships in !FormScaffolder
 * ![64173] Fixed wrong call to scaffoldCMSFields() in Member->getCMSFields(), removed addScaffoldRelationFields() call
as this is done by the newly called parent::getCMSFields() already
 * ![64153] #2906 - Fixed manifest conflict in web-tests
 * ![64142] fixed ss.i18n.sprintf() call in Validator.js
 * ![64124] #2936: Define STDOUT if it's not already defined...
 * ![64109] Fixed order of arguments.
 * ![64099] Bad XHTML in en_US language file (#2624) - thanks tiwoc!
 * ![64098] Director::fileExists() fails on windows with absolute paths (#2935) - thanks to ajshort!
 * ![64097] Fixed CSSContentParser to only use tidy on CLI mode if its available, and first check for existence of PHP
tidy extension. Fixes failing unit tests on standard WAMP windows installations.
 * ![64096] Fixed CSVParser assumptions about absolute unix-style filepaths - using Director::absFile() instead now
 * ![64081] Consistent usage of ss.i18n.sprintf() instead of ss.i18n.printf() - the method is returning a string rather
than outputting directly, so should be sprintf()
 * ![64077] Fixing !AssetAdmin translations which were previously moved to Folder.php - i18n::include_by_class() doesn't
like filenames/namespaces which are in a different folder than the language file they're referenced in (see #2359) -
started in r64076
 * ![64076] Fixing !AssetAdmin translations which were previously moved to Folder.php - i18n::include_by_class() doesn't
like filenames/namespaces which are in a different folder than the language file they're referenced in (see #2359)
 * ![64074] Fixed !AssetTableField javascript errors caused by r64049
 * ![64072] Fixed !DebugView Breadcrumbs to not include query string as separate link, and don't append an arrow after
the last element
 * ![64049] fix the bug that add some rules for summary columns even when they are not there.
 * ![64042] Using _t() to check content strings in unit tests and avoid tests failing when i18n is enabled
 * ![64038] Removed $_ALL_CLASSES in !ReportAdmin::has_reports() - this doesn't need to be here anymore, due to changes
in !ManifestBuilder
 * ![64013] Limited error message scope on invalid classname for !TestRunner
 * ![64011] Ignore !TestOnly classes when collecting permissions
 * ![64010] Removed dependency of ss.i18n.js on other libraries by replacing $$ with document.getElementsByTagName() and
implementing a custom event attacher - see #2927
 * ![64007] Making less assumptions about object structure in !FieldSet->addFieldToTab() error messages
 * ![64005] YamlFixture->saveIntoDatabase(): In order to support reflexive relations which need a valid object ID, the
record is written twice: first after populating all non-relational fields, then again after populating all relations
(has_one, has_many, many_many). Fixes a bug where !FileTest was testing onBeforeWrite() behaviour
 * ![64004] Writing record from yml before parsing relations in !YamlFixture->saveIntoDatabase() to avoid missing
lookups for reflexive relations on the same object
 * ![64002] Moved !RecordController and !CollectionController to external module (see r63905)
 * ![64001] Adjusted !FormTest->testLoadDataFromObject() to new assumptions about changed behaviour on loadDataFrom()
from $loadBlanks to $clearMissingFields - which means that form fields are cleared regardless if they have blank values
in the passed object or not
 * ![64000] Making sure that !DataObject->has*Field() methods always return an array, in order not to fail any
array_key_exists() checks
 * ![63999] Fixing !DataObject->hasField() to detect dynamic getters by using hasMethod("get$fieldName")
 * ![63998] Fixed Form->loadDataFrom() to properly populate !FormField->setValue() when an object is passed as the first
parameter (needed e.g. for !CheckboxSetField->setValue()) - see mailinglist discussion at
http://groups.google.com/group/silverstripe-dev/browse_thread/thread/717bada8ccafdd70
 * ![63983] Fixes so ?flush=1 doesn't stop showing the Reports tab in CMS
 * ![63981] Allow use of !ClassInfo methods in _config.php when manifest is being rebuilt
 * ![63945] Added missing slash in !TableListField_Item->Link()
 * ![63939] Improved !RedirectorPage's handling of invalid configuration options to prevent infinite loops and segfaults
 * ![63927] Improved detection of CLI colour support
 * ![63920] Fix broken breadcrumbs

#### Bugfixes

 * ![63915] #2588 Fix issue with IIS not stripping GET variables from the URL (mackeyn)
 * ![63909] Prevent misconfigured redirector pages from breaking static publishing
 * ![63890] Validation result was ignoring the $valid flag passed as the first argument.
 * ![63858] Fixed js i18n entity names for !TableField (see #2916)
 * ![63857] Properly merging different dictionaries for javascript i18n implementation (see #2916)
 * ![63839] Added missing default english text to i18n call in !TableField and !TableListField javascript
 * ![63828] MemberTableField_Popup had an odd way of overloading saveComplexTableField() - this should be on
!MemberTableField instead, since that's the direct subclass of !ComplexTableField for where saveComplexTableField() is
defined. This broke the "Add Member" button in CMS Security, probably due to the way the form URLs have been changed.
See ticket #2907 for the reported problem.
 * ![63825] Don't let Director::test() clobber current stage
 * ![63824] Fix !FieldSet::replaceField() so that it doesn't clobber tabs
 * ![63823] SiteTree::onAfterPublish() will still pass an object to the handlers on the first publish
 * ![63819] Fixed pagination in !TableListField after hsmith's changes
 * ![63813] Fixed array_key_exists check in !DataObject->setField that was failing when !DataObject->record was not yet
initialised by !DataObject->setField.
 * ![63809] PHP Notice in !InlineFormAction_Readonly
 * ![63804] Side reports weren't working on initial opening of the side tab
 * ![63799] Fixed blatant error where $SNG_member wasn't defined
 * ![63797] Member->getCMSFields() should use scaffoldCMSFields() instead of scaffoldFormFields() - currently it is
operating in the wrong context.
 * ![63793] MemberTableField->!AddLink() was calling &methodName=add - this should be just "add", as per changes to the
forum URLs in sapphire
 * ![63786] Removed query that was causing issues displaying members in the security groups. Open ticket #2591
 * ![63785] URLs to security groups in CMS were not linked correctly. Removed Director::link() references and replaced
with strings. Director::link() is deprecated and shouldn't be used.
 * ![63769] Fixed paths to CSV fixtures for case-sensitive file systems.
 * ![63768] Fixed $fixture_file for Ext2fs and other case-sensitive file systems.
 * ![63748] Use of getOwnerID() in !ReportAdmin which doesn't make sense, since ID() is sufficient.
 * ![63739] Fixed bug in getCMSFields scaffolding of relations
 * ![63716] Fixed createTag for proper generation of !DropdownField blank items
 * ![63698] Only include i18n.js if javascript files are included - and to be safe, include the required prototype.js
along with the library
 * ![63691] Removed old reference to ?executeForm=!EditForm
 * ![63681] Requiring a parentController for !RecordController
 * ![63649] Fixed unclear SQL escaping responsibilities in !SearchFilter subclasses - it now expects unescaped data, and
escapes automatically when adding to the query)
 * ![63647] Making "add %s" translatable for !ComplexTableField
 * ![63640] Automatically including sapphire/javascript/i18n.js in Requirements::process_i18n_javascript() to avoid
errors when Requirements are manually overwritten
 * ![63635] #2901 - !RootURLController didn't properly manipulate the Controller stack
 * ![63634] Reverted earlier change to !ModelAdmin.js statusMessage() display
 * ![63629] Translated Member formfields through fieldLabels()
 * ![63627] php notice in !CountryDropdownField
 * ![63622] Disabled user_error in !ComplexTableField->sourceID() when no formfield 'ID' is found in
!ComplexTableField->$detailFormFields - not strictly required as we can deduce it from the URL. It was causing conflicts
with !DataObject->scaffoldFormFields() not returning an 'ID' field
 * ![63621] Making sure that Dataobject->getManyManyJoin() inserts a valid database table for the relation - not all
component classes returned by !ComponentSet->ownerClass are valid tables (see r54797 and r60909 for previous commits on
this issue)
 * ![63618] Escaping added database columns in queries for !TableListField
 * ![63611] typo mentioned in #2775
 * ![63602] Fixed bounce-address generation so that it doesn't have a human component to the email address
 * ![63593] #1816: Added a little padding to page version table
 * ![63581] Fixed !ComplexTableField export
 * ![63571] typo in js file
 * ![63570] typo in js file
 * ![63549] Updated !TreeSelectorField to work properly within CTF popups
 * ![63527] Removed notice-level errors in !ListboxField
 * ![63525] #2883 - Remove use of short tag
 * ![63509] Fixed !DataObject::dbObject() operation with !CompositeDbFields
 * ![63467] Fixed Upload->isValidExtension() - was checking array keys instead of array values ....
 * ![63464] Fixed hardcoded HTTP protocol information in !BasicAuth
 * ![63457] AssetAdmin->Link() returned a trailing slash that was not necessary. See ticket #2884
 * ![63452] Fixed !ReportAdmin breakages - changes to HTTPRequest required that show($params) be changes to
show($request) and then check $request->allParams() for the URL parameters - this caused major breakages as this code
was not updated to reflect the new URL handling changes.
 * ![63432] #2753: Couldn't have fields named the same as methods
 * ![63304] #2529: Fixed HTTP/1.0 support
 * ![63297] Fixed loading indicator in for add form in !ModelAdmin.js
 * ![63296] wrong jsparty PATH references
 * ![63295] wrong jsparty PATH references
 * ![63294] Fixed !ModelAdmin Requirements path references
 * ![63291] Don't try to use HTTP_HOST environment variable if its not set in Director::protocolAndHost(). Throw a
warning, then return false - before if script execution was not set to stop on WARNING, you'll get a NOTICE as well.
 * ![63290] Moved *_PATH and PR_*constants from main.php/cli-script.php back to Core.php - was causing problems with
installer (directly includes Core.php, but doesn't run through main.php) - see ticket #2867 for improvement suggestions
in bootstrapping code to avoid these bugs
 * ![63204] Moved TEMP_FOLDER define back from main.php/cli-script.php to Core.php, as it was causing problems with the
installer
 * ![63157] Reverted Director class using BASE_PATH instead of dirname(dirname(['SCRIPT_FILENAME'])), originally
committed in r63154
 * ![63079] decrease width of elements in image/flash/link panel on right-hand side to avoid close-button being shoved
off to the void (#1669)
 * ![62910] #2390: Not indexed pages are removed from sitemap.xml
 * ![62909] Fixed bug introduced into !AssetTableField by previous CTF change
 * ![62892] #2721 - Show decent preview on !FileIFrameField
 * ![62885] Fixed a number of really basic problems with a number of date fields - got basic loading and saving working
across them all
 * ![62875] More robust setting of defaults; necessary due to altered !ViewableData::__isset()
 * ![62868] #2697 - Removed junk slash from login message
 * ![62701] Changed URL format for password sent confirmation display, to avoid issues with new request handling trying
to detect the email-TLD as a pseudo-file-extension (which resulted in truncated email-addresses in display). Old:
/Security/passwordsent/myemailaddress. New: Security/passwordsent/?email=myemailaddress
 * ![62490] createTag() on !FormField subclasses should use getTabIndex() instead of getTabIndexHTML() as createTag() is
responsible for generating the HTML, and all we need is the tabindex value
 * ![62471] Allowing HTTPRequest::match() to match rules with extensions (e.g. /sitemap.xml used for !GoogleSitemap)
 * ![62463] Pushing current controller into stack in !RootURLController->handleRequest to Session-usage in Translatable
if enabled. Session::get() is dependent on controllers, and is needed to determine the current language for any
Translatable queries (like !RootURLController::get_homepage_urlsegment())
 * ![62381] Type checking problem in !LookupField->Field(), merged in from r62387
 * ![62325] Removed !DataReport.js calls in !LeftAndMain until we figure out a better way of doing
 * ![62324] Removed !DataReport.js calls in !LeftAndMain until we figure out a better way of doing
 * ![62320] Allow creation of a tab and a field of the same name; bug cause by the duplicate field merging code
introduced recently.
 * ![61975] not all decorators has a summary_fields defined, so the code need to deal with this.
 * ![61699] Fixed bulk loader constructor
 * ![61686] Fixed styling, searching, and pagination of !CommentTableField
 * ![61505] Fix direct access of (class)/(id)/edit on the !ModelAdmiN
 * ![61395] SetHeight() was calling !SetWidth using getFormattedImage()
 * ![61292] fixed !ManyMany relation for same object
 * ![61202] Reverted change r61158 which stopped scrollbars working
 * ![61195] Asset area in CMS refused to load because of error in code from r60920 - #2751
 * ![61162] sourceFilter should be a string, not an array
 * ![61155] HtmlEditorField_Toolbar->!LinkForm() for editing a link inside an !HtmlEditorField instance was showing page
titles using the "Title"
 * ![61151] ComplexTableField_popup.css "overflow: auto" should only be applied to the container HTML element instead of
HTML and BODY which can
 * ![60920] #1458 - GEOIP now does not return any error if it cannot look up the ip address (as it uses a shell command
this is not enabled on many WAMP systems)
 * ![60897] fixed Member name not being saved in database with !ReadonlyField()
 * ![60757] Fixed !TableListField->Link() to allow for instanciation without a form/controller (e.g. for unit tests)
 * ![60756] Fixed !ScaffoldINGComplexTableField file name
 * ![60726] Fixed !DataObject::fieldLabels() to detect labels on inherited database fields
 * ![60723] Fixed partial merge from nzct (originally from r47039, partially merged in r60440)
 * ![60712] Fixed !ModelAdmin typo in $searchCriteria method parameter
 * ![60710] Fixed $this reference in static Member call
 * ![60643] Reinstated error_handling(E_ALL) for dev environments in main.php after clarifying with sam - we want to
force developers to recard notice-level errors unless they expicitly opt-out in their _config.php
 * ![60636] Disabled mandatory override of default PHP error handler to E_ALL when in dev mode (which means you have no
way of overriding error_reporting() in your _config.php, and by that no way of disabling e.g. E_NOTICE level errors)
 * ![60635] Fixed CMSMainTest to use /admin/crm as a standard URL rather than /admin (which could be overloaded by other
admins for application-like interfaces without CMS components)
 * ![60573] Fixed bug with unpaginated !TableListFields.  Added tests for !TableListField pagination
 * ![60415] Added Requirements::path_for_file() to support external URLs in required paths (incl. unit test)
 * ![60413] Fixed !RequirementsTest combine_files() testing to accept new javascript inclusion format with added
modified flags
 * ![60412] Fixed JSON.php include path in Convert.php
 * ![60410] Fixed test runner's handling of errors
 * ![60404] Further fixes to Director::test()
 * ![60397] Changes to !DataObject::get_one() caching to try and fix segfaults
 * ![60393] Fixed superglobal masquerading in Director::test()
 * ![60388] Fixed Yaml fixtures for !SapphireTest
 * ![60382] Re-added additional !GroupTest tests (merge error from branches/roa)
 * ![60378] Removed duplicate !GroupTest.php files
 * ![60224] Fixed merge error in !ModelAsController
 * ![60219] Fixed reverted access checks in Controller->handleAction() due to merge error
 * ![60213] Javascript error in !ComplexTableField_popup.js - missing a comma in an object literal which broke ajax
updates in the CMS
 * ![60092] Using $extraClass in !AutocompleteTextField
 * ![59340] Fixed !TableListField->setClick_!PopupLoad() to parse ID-value out of new `<td>` identifiers
 * ![59285] Changed span.middleColumn to .middleColumn in cms_right.css in preparation for building proper HTML/XHTML
nesting in formfields
 * ![59284] Changed span.middleColumn to .middleColumn in cms_right.css in preparation for building proper HTML/XHTML
nesting in formfields
 * ![59283] Fixed i18n namespacing issue in !TableListField_Item.ss - was using _t('Form.DELETE'), but templates don't
allow to re-use variables outside their own namespace
 * ![59282] Removed duplicate SecurityID fields on each row of a !TableField (calls $myForm->Fields() which by default
will include more than the actual form fields passed to the constructor)
 * ![59281] Fixed colspan on `<td class="actions">` in !MemberTableField.ss


#### Enhancement

 * ![71650] Applying the asynch request patch to our tag field. We use a simple queue management idea to keep only the
latest ajax request is valid, ie, we abort all requests before the current request is submitted, so that there is only
at most one request spanning in the client side, so no early request's response cover late request's response, also
greatly enhance the performance of both sides, especially in case of complicated operations in server side and
complicated post-events in client side.
 * ![71597] delete button keep spinning when cancel a deletion operation from the confirm window.
 * ![70956] Ticket 2756: Newsletter performance problem, run out of memory.
 * ![70861] Allow selection of the unique identifier field on Member by setting
Member::set_unique_identifier_field(!AnotherField). Default is "Email".
 * ![70846] When !MemberLoginForm controller page has loaded, focus on the Email input field so the user doesn't have to
focus the field themselves. Ticket #3418
 * ![70809] Removed blacklist newsletter specific code out of core and into newsletter module
 * ![70783] Export to CSV data of !MemberTableField gets all fields on the member from the db array, instead of just
!FirstName, Surname and Email
 * ![70775] Removed !BrowserDetect javascript library which was randomly placed in Security_login.js and just included
in !AssetAdmin. Reverted to regex-matching for simple browser detection for now
 * ![70465] Allow Member::getCMSFields() to be extended via !DataObjectDecorator->updateCMSFields()
 * ![70190] Added nicer (and more useful) error message if !ErrorPage cannot open the error HTML file for writing
 * ![70131] Creation of a new page type now uses a consistent source of classes that respect $hide_ancestor on
!SiteTree.
 * ![70064] Default to "Page" for new page type dropdown
 * ![70060] Added a table for showing linked pages in the Report -> !BackLinks tab
 * ![69954] Calling augmentSQL() on decorators in !DataObject::get(), which is necessary (among others) to limit
!ContentController->getMenu() with Translatable enabled to the currently active language. Was previously just
implemented in !DataObject::get_one()
 * ![69953] Passing through same arguments in !SiteTree::get_by_url() than in the wrapped !DataObject::get_one()
 * ![69952] Removing specialized routing for Translatable from Director->currentPage() and
!ModelAsController->getNestedController. Calls !SiteTree::get_by_url() now, which abstracts out the Translatable
handling.
 * ![69924] #3313 gigtech: Added !ComplexTableField::setAddTitle()
 * ![69909] Allowing for passing of $context in Hierarchy->markChildren()
 * ![69896] Allowing more arguments in Object->extend() (merged from branches/translatable in r64523, thanks wakeless!)
 * ![69895] Added SQLQuery->filtersOnFK() (merged from branches/translatable in r64523, thanks wakeless!)
 * ![69891] Moved i18n::get_existing_content_languages() to correct namespace in
Translatable::get_existing_content_languages().
 * ![69888] Added !DataObjectSet->replace()
 * ![69864] Allow selection of parent page with adding page through URL - Ticket #3177. Thanks simon_w!
 * ![69833] Separated the class name for captioned images to normal images, so styling can be separately applied
 * ![69824] Caption support for the !HtmlEditorField in the SS CMS. Ticket #2937
 * ![69823] Caption support for the TinyMCE editor in the SS CMS. Ticket #2937
 * ![69821] #3180: Added !RsyncMultiHostPubilsher to 2.3 from trunk
 * ![69734] Allow specifying application URL for the top right logo instead of hardcoded silverstripe.com. Thanks
hamish!
 * ![69661] Removed /cms URL alias for CMS interface to allow for pages named "cms" (see #3267)
 * ![69660] Removed /silverstripe URL alias for CMS interface to allow for pages named "silverstripe" (see #3267)
 * ![69449] Added .message styles to cms/css/layout.css
 * ![69370] Add a `<span class="highlight">` around all keywords (space delimited) and not just the entire search phrase
 * ![69360] Update !ForeignKey and Primary key default fields to use SQLMap for their dropdown source for better
performance.
 * ![69323] Added styling for "form .message.notice" in sapphire/css/Form.css
 * ![69322] More readable (and linked) output of "you are comparing..." message when viewing version of a page
 * ![69244] Added renameField() to !FieldSet
 * ![69224] Allow choosing ellipsis for truncated text on Text->!LimitWordCountXML()
 * ![69218] Added ability to define the ellipsis for !LimitWordCount() setting "..." as the default
 * ![69207] Changed order of array merging in !DataObject->db() - contains fields from subclasses at end of the array
instead of the beginning. Important because db() is used by !FormScaffolder, which shoved custom fields on the front of
auto-generated forms. Shouldn't have any effect on the actual content of returned array
 * ![69204] Hiding Member->!BlacklistedEmail field in getCMSFields() by default - only relevant in newsletter/bounce
context at the moment
 * ![68860] Added !RestfulServerTest->testGETRelationshipsXML()
 * ![68818] Appending classnames to translated pagetype titles in CMSMain->getPageTypes() when the cms is loaded in a
non-english version - see inline comment
 * ![68817] Appending classnames to translated pagetype titles in !SiteTree->getClassDropdown() when the cms is loaded
in a non-english version - see inline comment
 * ![68771] Improved display of class permissions in /admin/security by using the menu title in addition to the
classname (users won't necessarily know which classname an admin area corresponds to). Also using "Access to all CMS
interfaces" as a permission description for CMS_ACCESS_!LeftAndMain
 * ![68761] Making Date->Ago() translatable
 * ![68747] Using i18nEntityProvider on !SiteTree to ensure entities in "Page" namespace get stored on sapphire instead
of the "module folder" for Page.php - we can't make those properties translatable within core if they are in a custom
folder
 * ![68745] Allowing textcollection of multiple modules selectively
 * ![68701] Allow !HtmlEditorField on front-end forms
 * ![68508] Checking for $_FILE_TO_URL_MAPPING in !DevelopmentAdmin if called in CLI mode to avoid nasty bugs e.g.
during !FunctionalTest sessions (Example: Controller stack was failing for some weird reason in !LeftAndMainTest)
 * ![68460] Added CMSMenu::get_viewable_menu_items() and using it in !LeftAndMain->!MainMenu()
 * ![68193] Added Email->setTemplate() and Email->getTemplate() (as the Email_Template class is deprecated)
 * ![68160] Added support for specifying target module in i18nEntitityProvider->provideEntities()
 * ![68156] Added support for specifying target module in i18nEntitityProvider->provideEntities()
 * ![67984] Documented and improved !DataObjectSet->!PaginationSummary(). Removed !DataObjectSet->paginationSummaryDots
 * ![67675] Fixed Email::obfuscate() to include custom CSS for reversing the email address using the "direction" method
 * ![67638] Added "reverse" method to Email::obfuscate() to reverse the email address in PHP, then CSS can be used to
reverse it back to normal to avoid email harvesting
 * ![67502] Added SSViewer::get_source_file_comments()
 * ![67422] Allow setting of the legend value in the Form template by use of Form->setLegend('my legend')
 * ![67398] Added ability to include a blockquote in the CMS WYSIWYG editor
 * ![67345] Allowing custom methods in !DataObjectSet->column()
 * ![67321] Only showing import form in !ModelAdmin if an importer is set
 * ![67294] Added SITETREE_GRANT_ACCESS permission code to !SiteTree to control editability of the "Access" tab (incl.
unit tests)
 * ![67292] Supporting object parameter in !FieldSet->makeFieldReadonly()
 * ![67291] Added mock controller instances to each !FunctionalTest, which passes the existing mock session object into
the controller stack. This means Sesssion::get()/set() in application code will use the test session. Helpful mainly for
overriding login information used by Member::currentUser().
 * ![67242] Make it easier to create pageless subclasses of Page_Controller
 * ![67224] Adding "close popup" link after saving /admin/myprofile (see #3195)
 * ![67139] Added !TreeDropdownField->refresh() js method
 * ![67138] Allowing usage of extraClass() in !TreeDropdownField
 * ![67083] Using TEMP_FOLDER for !StaticExporter
 * ![67072] Disallowing CMSMain->revert() if !SiteTree->canPublish() is not granted (used to be !SiteTree->canEdit()).
If a user isn't allowed to publish, he shouldn't be allowed to revert the live state of a page either.
 * ![67061] Moving "save" and "delete" cms actions from CMSMain->!EditForm() into !SiteTree->getCMSActions() to make
them decoratable (e.g. disallow delete action) and easier to cover with unit tests. Leaving fallback "save" and "delete"
actions in CMSMain in case no actions are defined (necessary e.g. for Group class in !SecurityAdmin)
 * ![66958] Added !SearchForm->setPageLength() and !SearchForm->getPageLength()
 * ![66946] Add `<%-- --%>` comments
 * ![66830] Disabled sending of warnings through Debug::send_errors_to() by default. If you need extended error
reporting including warnings (e.g. for a site which is still in active development), use
Debug::send_errors_to('example@example.com', true) or Debug::send_warnings_to('example@example.com')
 * ![66803] Just redirect back after "import" action called, and set the session message on the Form object instead of
hardcoded ID
 * ![66654] Renamed tab "Meta-data" to "Metadata" for better readability (see #3142)
 * ![66646] Fixed default level in !HeaderField - was duplicating defaults already present in two other places (see
r66639)
 * ![66625] Allow !CheckboxSetField to use extra classes as other !FormField classes do. Also dded test for this
behaviour in !CheckboxSetFieldTest.
 * ![66622] Sort test class list by alphabetical order so it's easier to read
 * ![66596] Defaulting to show all columns in !ModelAdmin CSV export, ignoring user selection of result table columns
(users can always limit CSV columns by manually deleting them e.g. in Excel)
 * ![66583] Added experimental support using (relname)Query methods to pass complex relations (those defined by methods)
into searchfilter
 * ![66343] Added comments in rendered templates to indicate the source .ss files, on dev sites only:
 * ![66333] Added !ConfirmedPasswordField->setShowOnClickTitle()
 * ![66323] If there are no files in a folder in !AssetAdmin, show a message
 * ![66322] Added !SearchFormTest
 * ![66320] Added more known file extensions (tiff, js, html, css, ico) to File->getFileType()
 * ![66312] Added support for $relationCallbacks on the importer class (in addition to methods on the model class)
 * ![66173] Moving !GoogleSitemap functionality (priority dropdown and database fields) from !SiteTree to
!GoogleSitemapDecorator
 * ![66168] Removed !GoogleSitemap references in !SiteTree (moving to decorator implementation)
 * ![66137] Added !TranslatableTest with minimal assertions about existing form fields in translation mode
 * ![66045] Added support for custom importer methods in !CsvBulkLoader
 * ![65827] Added error messages to flash uploader panel, to be consistent with the image uploader one
 * ![65582] Using actual classname in !DataObjectSet->debug()
 * ![65581] Added unit tests for !FieldSet->insertBefore()/insertAfter()
 * ![65513] Using currently used content languages for options in the TinyMCE spellchecker (see
http://open.silverstripe.com/ticket/2498#comment:2)
 * ![65508] Added language tables for tinymce_ssbuttons Plugin, incl. German translation
 * ![65495] Calling !UpgradeSiteTreePermissionSchemaTask from !SiteTree->requireDefaultRecords as a temporary workaround
for missing migration infrastructure. This means that upgrading the schema for 2.3 can be done without manual task
triggers, just the usual dev/build (see http://open.silverstripe.com/ticket/2847#comment:4)
 * ![65494] Added !DatabaseTest
 * ![65464] Better CLI output for browsing dev/tests
 * ![65463] Allowing strings instead of arrays in !ModelAdmin::$managed_models to make it less error-prone for beginners
 * ![65457] Allowing to pass strings instead of arrays into !FunctionalTest->assert*() methods, and convert them
internally to arrays
 * ![65455] Adjusted !AssetAdmin to Folder->can*() changes
 * ![65454] Added !LeftAndMainDecorator
 * ![65453] Added stub methods to !DataObjectDecorator for documentation purposes
 * ![65452] Allowing decoration of can*() methods in File and Folder
 * ![65361] Added unit tests for i18n template parsing
 * ![65266] Folder name can now be used for uploading files. Ticket #3026 - Thanks simon_w!
 * ![65181] Updated !LeftAndMain->getMenuTitle() to use classname as fallback if $menu_title is not defined - one less
thing to specify in a minimalist !ModelAdmin subclass
 * ![65173] Refactored CSS applied to filter boxes by using common selector
 * ![65153] Added !UpgradeSiteTreePermissionSchemaTask as a manual migration of !SiteTree schema upgrades in 2.3 (see
#2847)
 * ![65150] Added unit tests for !SiteTree permissions
 * ![65147] Only logging out users on Security::permissionFailure() is called in non-ajax context. For ajax requests, we
now return a 403 HTTP Status in a HTTPResponse Object, with a ":NOTLOGGEDIN" body for backwards compatibility. If a
logout+redirection is required after an ajax-request, this should be handled by the clientside.
 * ![65125] Added a "strict-mode" for Member->inGroup() and Member->inGroups() to determine true membership to a group
(without inheritance)
 * ![65092] Scaffolding !TextField instead of !TextareaField in Text DBField due to size
 * ![65073] Added fieldLabels() overloading to various !DataObject subclasses. Use this method instead of directly
calling _t() in getCMSFields(), and use fieldLabel('!MyField') to get the label for a specific !FormField. This way, we
can transparently support formfield scaffolding and re-use the labels for search fields automatically.
 * ![65072] Added fieldLabels() overloading to various !DataObject subclasses. Use this method instead of directly
calling _t() in getCMSFields(), and use fieldLabel('!MyField') to get the label for a specific !FormField. This way, we
can transparently support formfield scaffolding and re-use the labels for search fields automatically.
 * ![65056] Removed !DataObjectDecorator->updateSummaryFieldsExcludeExtra() - was a straight copy of
updateSummaryFields()...
 * ![65055] More solid fulltext checks against master language tables in i18nTextCollectorTest
 * ![65054] Using eval() in textcollector to test for valid PHP syntax
 * ![65051] Added unit tests for i18nTextCollector handling of newlines in entity values
 * ![65029] Using namespaces for filenames in !RequirementsTest
 * ![65027] Using safer get_by_id() call in !SecurityAdmin->getMemberForm()
 * ![65022] Added i18nEntityProvider interface (see comments in #1625) incl. unit tests
 * ![65020] Allowing translation of some static properties on !DataObject and subclasses through
!DataObject->fieldLabels(). Part of the provideI18nEntities() work which was started in r64881 (see #1625)
 * ![64881] Ignoring entity-names with $ signs (most likely dynamic properties) in i18nTextCollector->collectFromCode()
 * ![64878] Added unit tests for i18n.js
 * ![64682] Changed !FormField->Field() to make use of !FormField->createTag() over complicated dynamic string building
 * ![64596] Allow use of !RestfulService->setQueryString() and test to support it. Patch from ticket #2973. Thanks to
simon_w!
 * ![64558] Used _t() entity instead of hardcoded "not set" string in !TextareaField->Field()
 * ![64556] Clearer indication of setting disabled attribute in !DropdownField->Field() since the disabled attribute
shouldn't be set if the field isn't to be disabled
 * ![64553] Clearer indication of setting disabled attribute in !CheckboxField->Field() since the disabled attribute
shouldn't be set if the field isn't to be disabled
 * ![64552] If !TextField->disabled has been set to true, then add the "disabled" attribute to the input type text
attribute list
 * ![64551] Made use of !FormField->createTag() functionality for creating a textarea field in !TextareaField->Field()
 * ![64494] Using ksort() in textcollector to get alphabetized language master files (=easier to compare and debug)
 * ![64493] Made _t() global function in Core.php an alias for the new i18n::_t() method
 * ![64492] Refactored i18nTextCollector and added unit tests
 * ![64489] Added !ClassInfo::classes_for_file()
 * ![64447] Moving i18n->textcollector() and related methods to new class i18nTextCollector and i18nTextCollectorTask -
enabling running textcollector through CLI, refactored to instance methods for better testability
 * ![64446] Improved !TaskRunner and !BuildTask metadata and styling
 * ![64421] Using createTag() to create !HeaderField and !LabelField, which adds support for HTML id attributes and
extra css classes through addExtraClass()
 * ![64410] Made use of createTag() on !FormAction->Field()
 * ![64408] Added ID to allow CSS styling of forgot password link on !MemberLoginForm
 * ![64406] Added a message if no email address was specified, for user feedback purposes on
!MemberLoginForm->forgotPassword()
 * ![64405] Changed the "I've lost my password" action to a link instead, since the button is too prominent, and
usability is poor  having this as a form submit button.
 * ![64397] Versioned::get_one_by_stage() and Versioned::get_by_stage() were missing parameters from their get_one() and
get() counterparts in !DataObject. Those parameters have been added. See ticket #2965 for the origin of this patch.
 * ![64366] Pulled out Newsletter specific stuff from Member, the changes in the newsletter module were done on r64365
 * ![64356] Added additional known file types, for audio and video files
 * ![64311] Added unit tests for Silverstripe's custom static handling (with lots of commented out failing tests)
 * ![64306] is_array() checks in !DataFormatter to respect empty arrays as a form of denying permissions on fields
 * ![64305] Added !BankAccountField::is_valid_array_structure() to avoid PHP Notices when converting empty array values
 * ![64304] Added !DropdownFieldTest
 * ![64252] Making confirmation message in !ConfirmedFormAction translatable
 * ![64238] Showing image thumb before input field in a separate block `<div class="thumbnail">` in !SimpleImageField
 * ![64236] Added unit tests for form session messages and session validation, !FormTest->testSessionValidationMessage()
and !FormTest->testSessionSuccessMessage()
 * ![64229] Storing a "fake referer" in !TestSession->lastURL to allow for redirectBack() calls, e.g. after failed form
validation
 * ![64224] Disrecard $includeRelations setting when scaffolding $has_one relationships in !FormScaffolder - use
$restrictFields to limit instead
 * ![64223] Making URL accessible through HTTPRequest->getURL()
 * ![64157] Added $params parameter to all DBField->scaffoldFormField() subclasses
 * ![64144] Setting default level for !ContentController->getMenu($level = 1) to allow for calls without arguments
 * ![64078] Using $locale in _t() instead of repeatedly calling i18n::get_locale()
 * ![64075] Replaced hardcoded "en_US" references in i18n class with $default_locale
 * ![64073] Supporting titles in !FieldSet->findOrMakeTab()
 * ![64071] Added german translation for !ModelAdmin
 * ![64067] Using i18n fieldlabels for column-headlines in !TableListField
 * ![64041] Re-enabled RSSFeedTest - seems to work now due to Director::baseURL() fixes (#2861)
 * ![64012] Improved error message on invalid classname for !TestRunner
 * ![64003] Added !DataFormatter->setCustomRelations()
 * ![64001] Made !FormTest fixtures more expressive
 * ![63999] Re-enabled two test cases in !DataObjectSet as a result of the above fixes
 * ![63996] Added unit test !CheckboxSetFieldTest?->testLoadDataFromObject()
 * ![63995] Using fixtures in !CheckboxSetFieldTest?, restructured from hard-to-debug manymany-join on self to a
Article`<->`Tag relation
 * ![63955] Pulled out Report::has_reports() which was hardcoded into !LeftAndMain, and put into cms/_config.php which
makes more sense
 * ![63763] Reformatted and documented Form->loadDataFrom() - no functionality changed
 * ![63762] Added unit tests for "_unchanged" handling in Form->loadDataFrom()
 * ![63761] Added unit tests for Form->loadDataFrom()
 * ![63748] Added missing "abstract" Report class to compliment !ReportAdmin. Currently it is unclear what abstract base
class you're supposed to implement from.
 * ![63681] Custom getViewer() methods to use Page main templates if !CollectionController is nested in a
!ContentController
 * ![63680] Added SSViewer->getTemplateFileByType() and SSViewer->setTemplateFile()
 * ![63679] Added HTTPRequest::detect_method()
 * ![63653] Added Controller->getRequest()
 * ![63652] Added Controller->render($params) as a shortcut for
Controller->customise($params)->renderWith(array('!MyTemplate','!MySubTemplate')) - templates are auto-detected by
Controller->getViewer() and Controller->getAction()
 * ![63651] Consistently allowing for $restrictFields and $fieldClasses parameters passed to
!DataObject->scaffoldFormFields(), !DataObject->scaffoldSearchFields(), !DataObject->scaffoldCMSFields()
 * ![63650] Added !RequestHandlingTest->testNestedBase()
 * ![63648] Added support for customize parameters to !ViewableData->renderWith() to avoid unnecessary chaining
($this->customize($params)->renderWith($template))
 * ![63633] Better i18n for !TableField and !ComplexTableField
 * ![63632] Using !DataObject->Title for has_one dropdowns generated in !DataObject->scaffoldFormFields()
 * ![63630] Added !DataObject->fieldLabel() and removed $fieldname parameter from !DataObject->fieldLabels($fieldName)
to simplify overloading of fieldLabels() for i18n
 * ![63628] Added !FieldSet->hasTabSet() incl. unit test
 * ![63626] Removed overloaded !MemberTableField->!DetailForm() and reduced overloaded constructor logic - same
behaviour found in parent classes
 * ![63624] Scaffolding Member->getCMSFields() to allow for easy extension
 * ![63623] Calling !DataObjectDecorator->updateCMSFields() in !DataObject->getCMSFields() - was previously only called
in !SiteTree instances
 * ![63620] Only list ID field in !DataObject->summaryFields() if no summaryfields are defined (or can be autodetected).
Listing all fields was not feasible, as some subclasses have more fields than fits the column layout
 * ![63619] Added !ObjectTest->testSingletonCreation()
 * ![63615] Added !FieldSetTest->testRemoveTab()
 * ![63614] Updated translations from translate.silverstripe.com
 * ![63613] Updated translations from translate.silverstripe.com
 * ![63572] Removed project-specific requirements from CMSMain
 * ![63569] Started using ss.i18n clientside javascript in !LeftAndMain classes (only a fraction made translatable)
 * ![63567] Using ss.i18n in all sapphire form fields with clientside language strings
 * ![63566] Added javascript i18n support through Requirements::process_i18n_javascript() and ss.i18n javascript lib
 * ![63565] Added !ViewableData->i18nLocale, used in !LeftAndMain.ss to determine interface language through meta tags
(see r63564)
 * ![63564] Added !ViewableData->i18nLocale, used in !LeftAndMain.ss to determine interface language through meta tags
 * ![63554] Checking for instanceof !DataObject instead of has_one() in !DataObject->update() to support virtual
relations as well (fix to r63531)
 * ![63528] #1848 - Select the title field for new pages
 * ![63526] #2875: Make CLI execution more robust when FILE_TO_URL_MAPPING not set
 * ![63493] Added support for dot syntax to !DataObject::update()
 * ![63470] Setting !SimpleImageField->allowedExtensions to sensible defaults
 * ![63468] Added Form->resetField()
 * ![63465] Showing contact information in Debug::friendlyError() from Email::getAdminEmail()
 * ![63463] Added Director::get_environment_type()
 * ![63452] Better URL handling. Instead of "admin/showreport/something", we do "admin/report/show/something", which is
more consistent with the rest of the CMS.
 * ![63388] Director::forceWWW() now does a 301 redirect for SEO (to be consistent with Director::forceSSL())
 * ![63337] Added !DataObjectTest test cases for checking various field existence levels
 * ![63327] #2172: Added counts to comment admin submenu items
 * ![63321] Updated cli-script handling to be more in line with web calls, and improved Director::setBaseURL() calls.
 * ![63289] Tidied up !DropdownField->Field() by making use of !FormField->createTag() as other !FormField subclasses
such as !TextField do
 * ![63249] Moved !UserDefinedForm and related code, templates, CSS and javascript out of cms and sapphire classes into
userforms/trunk
 * ![63198] Added user_error() if !RebuildStaticCacheTask is called without a Page->allPagesToCache() method defined
 * ![63182] Added !ManifestBuilder::$cache_expiry_mins
 * ![63181] Using HTTP Status 301 for !RedirectorPage class, to be nice to search engines and improve SEO (with 200 page
rank gets split between pages, with 301 its all transferred to the target page)
 * ![63175] Introduced constants for system paths like /sapphire in preparation for a more flexible directory
reorganisation. Instead of hardcoding your path, please use the following constants: BASE_PATH, BASE_URL, SAPPHIRE_DIR,
SAPPHIRE_PATH, CMS_DIR, CMS_PATH, THIRDPARTY_DIR, THIRDPARTY_PATH, ASSETS_DIR, ASSETS_PATH, THEMES_DIR, THEMES_PATH
 * ![63154] Introduced constants for system paths like /sapphire in preparation for a more flexible directory
reorganisation. Instead of hardcoding your path, please use the following constants: BASE_PATH, BASE_URL, SAPPHIRE_DIR,
SAPPHIRE_PATH, CMS_DIR, CMS_PATH, THIRDPARTY_DIR, THIRDPARTY_PATH, ASSETS_DIR, ASSETS_PATH, THEMES_DIR, THEMES_PATH
 * ![63153] Moved procedural bootstrapping code hiding away between function definitions in Core.php to main.php and
cli-script.php (TEMP_FOLDER and PR_* constants)
 * ![63057] Updated argument handling for sake
 * ![63025] Better CLI output of 'sake dev'
 * ![63022] #2853 - Added dev/build as a the new name for db/build; prettied it up
 * ![62995] Prevent CMS session timing out and losing content - Added a ping to Security/ping every 5 mins, and altered
the onSessionLost behaviour to open login form in a pop-up instead of closing the CMS (see #2242)
 * ![62994] Prevent CMS session timing out and losing content - Added Security/ping as a destination for
session-preserving ajax pings
 * ![62894] #2700 - Added section title to CMS title tag
 * ![62883] ComplexTableFilters used to edit relations have their filter automatically set, as well as the foreign key
on new records.
 * ![62867] #2417: Replaced http://www.yoursite.com with the actual base URL
 * ![62848] Allowing to specify dropdown title field in !TypeDropdown->setTitleFieldName() - patch by nicolaas (#2689)
 * ![62847] Allowing usage of ID, Code-String or Object as $group parameter in Member::inGroup()
 * ![62844] Allowing usage of $member parameter for Member::check() as ID, Code or Object
 * ![62843] Added Debug::send_warnings_to()
 * ![62841] Using optional $member parameter for !DataObject::can*() methods
 * ![62477] Improved ajax error display within the CMS: Using Firebug (or Firebug Lite) for plaintext output instead of
cramming everything into the CMS-status field
 * ![62468] In Debug::showError(), if error is displayed through ajax with !CliDebugView, use plaintext output
 * ![62467] Removed "ERROR:" prefix hack for ajax error responses - clientside evaluation should inspect HTTP status
codes instead
 * ![62397] Adjusted !ModelAdmin->import() to new !BulkLoader_Result API (see r62403)
 * ![62267] Added DBFieldTest to test prepValueForDB()
 * ![61685] You can now use Controller::join_links() to add querystring arguments to a URL
 * ![61627] Added dev/tests/startsession and dev/tests/endsession to allow the use of fixtures with external test
frameworks, such as Windmill
 * ![61618] wakeless - Added SQLQuery::filtersOnID()
 * ![61485] DropdownField now allows for `<optgroup>` elements in the field source by passing in a two dimensional array
- this was taken from !GroupedDropdownField
 * ![61420] RequiredFields->php() uses quotes around title of field, falling back to the name of the field if title
isn't available
 * ![61415] Added !LowerCase() to DBField to return the raw2xml converted value as lower case for any type of field if
applicable
 * ![61394] Added !SetHeight() to the Image class, so we can call it from the templates
 * ![61392] Added !SetSize() to the Image class so we can use it in the templates
 * ![61166] Consistent styling of !TypeDropdown in the CMS
 * ![61165] Added h3, h4 and h5 CSS styles
 * ![61157] Added !FieldSet->removeFieldsFromTab() which does exactly what removeFieldFromTab() does, but with an array
of field names
 * ![61154] Director::forceSSL() redirects are now 301 instead of 302 redirects, which is better for SEO
 * ![61153] ErrorPage:: should also list !ShowInSearch as 0, since it is not required to be searched
 * ![61149] Added getter method for !CompositeField->children
 * ![61147] If title not passed into !TextareaField constructor, it defaults to the name value
 * ![60724] Removed recently added !DataObject::$result_permissions and replaced with more specific
!TableListField::permissions_for_object()
 * ![60645] Added Maori to i18n::$common_languages
 * ![60637] Showing error level in custom error handlers on !DebugView and !CliDebugView
 * ![60635] Added default /admin/cms route to cms/_config.php to clear default namespace for other controllers
 * ![60395] Using Requirements instead of hardcoded template logic to include some !LeftAndMain js/css
 * ![59286] Added `<div class=""middleColumn">` around !TableListField templates and all subclasses


#### Minor changes

 * ![71706] Make !FirstName and Surname of Member table be indexed.
 * ![71621] Allow setting page size for !MemberTableField
 * ![71569] some label, texture change for AHIP project SC #99
 * ![71345] added user friendly labels - should really be _t compatible I guess
 * ![71292] Fixed tab-spacing in cms/upload js files
 * ![71194] Fixed CSVParserTest with encoding issues
 * ![70960] Added basic tests for Date and !DateField
 * ![70953] Code formatting fix in !DateField
 * ![70895] Updated tests to check boolean values in !CsvBulkLoaderTest
 * ![70843] Added phpDoc comments for documentation that needs to be written explaining the different source data that
can be used with !CheckboxSetField
 * ![70833] Ensure that $result is defined before calling array functions on it in !SiteTree::getClassDropdown()
 * ![70807] Code formatting cleanup in Member
 * ![70799] Code formatting fix in !SecurityAdmin_left.ss
 * ![70783] Code formatting fix
 * ![70769] Defensive handling of events in !TreeSelectorField->hideTree
 * ![70761] Added important piece of information for where the callback method should be defined for duplicate checks in
!BulkLoader
 * ![70693] fixing flash insertion and removing console log messages
 * ![70678] Use !FormResponse instead of echoing strings as JS
 * ![70677] Removed hard-to-debug error trap in !SecurityAdmin_right.js
 * ![70666] merged r70665 from trunk
 * ![70664] removed dulicate css code
 * ![70663] merged r70323 from trunk
 * ![70662] tinymce toolbar improvements. Fixed gradient image and border issue
 * ![70657] #3416 MCE Editor Minor Beautification (thanks ajshort!)
 * ![70647] Changed $title parameter to !HtmlEditorField constructor to null to be consistent with !TextareaField and so
title is derived based on the name of the field if no title is given.
 * ![70635] Patch from ajshort. changed site tree shortcut icon to transparent.
 * ![70608] Code formatting fix in !FormField
 * ![70598] ticket 1846. Changed Action to title case
 * ![70596] ticket 1846. changed logout text to title case
 * ![70591] merged patch from simon_w. Fixed language in model admin
 * ![70587] fix for ticket 3384. Instead of messing round with added requirements back if you cannot merge them just
return
 * ![70571] in-line documentation correction
 * ![70548] Added default english text for "Email" in Secrity->!LostPasswordForm()
 * ![70540] Added default english text for "Email" and "Password" fields in !MemberLoginForm
 * ![70530] merged patch from keeny. Put comment data into Cookie and load if user fails maths spam question. Clear
comment cookie on successful posting
 * ![70498] Fixed incorrect parameters breaking !PasswordField HTML validity because maxlength and size were being
populated by non-numeric characters
 * ![70494] merged patch from simon_w. Removed unnesscary comments
 * ![70493] merged patch from simon_w. Changed can*() methods to check they are sent valid member objects rather then
arrays
 * ![70484] merged patch from rjmackay. Fixed inclusion of BBCode filters and reported error supression
 * ![70483] merged patch from simon_w: added check to Children() to make sure user has canView() rights
 * ![70411] added empty statics for decoration
 * ![70409] added empty statics to allow decoration
 * ![70408] added empty statics to !PageComment to allow for decoration
 * ![70400] SilverStripeNavigator toolbar is now i18n friendy
 * ![70360] removed Gallery Module code from !AssetTableField
 * ![70355] CSS hover background fix. Merged from ticket #3264. Thanks gigtech
 * ![70269] Update !ResetFormAction to make use of createTag() method instead of patching together strings to make the
form input
 * ![70257] Fixed undefined variable error in !TableListField->generateExportFileData()
 * ![70255] Whitespace removal at end of !DataObjectDecorator class
 * ![70252] Update phpDoc for !DataObject->getFrontEndFields()
 * ![70251] Renamed !DataObjectDecorator->updateFormFields() to updateFrontEndFields() to be more accurate to the
extended method
 * ![70238] Removed "Groups" field that wasn't used in Member::getCMSFields()
 * ![70236] Code tidy up and coding style fixes for !MemberTableField
 * ![70188] If the error-404.html or error-500.html file can't be opened, supress the warning so an error isn't shown in
the CMS
 * ![70154] phpDoc for Varchar->getName()
 * ![70153] Removed redundant code from Varchar
 * ![70133] Fix potential undefined variable errors in Query->column() and Query->keyedColumn() by always returning an
array, even if it's empty. This now conforms to the phpDoc for these two functions, instead of returning null if there's
no $column variable set
 * ![70132] Defined $column as an array so "undefined variable" error is supressed
 * ![70070] tidied up padding in headings complextablefields with long titles
 * ![70065] Removed redundant code in CMSMain->!AddPageOptionsForm()
 * ![70061] Removed redundant code
 * ![70059] Code formatting fixes in !HtmlEditorField
 * ![70053] Added test for HTTP::getLinksIn() which subsequently tests HTTP::findByTagAndAttribute()
 * ![70048] fix on-line documentation syntax so that phpDocumentor can creating automatically the API doc
 * ![70032] fix on-line documentation syntax so that phpDocumentor can creating automatically the API doc
 * ![69955] Passing context object through in !LeftAndMain->getSiteTreeFor() (necessary for Translatable)
 * ![69939] Removed "edit image" button since the image editor has been removed
 * ![69890] Updated language tables
 * ![69889] Added Extension->getOwner()
 * ![69883] Fixed alignment of "Create translation" button in CMS - removed unnecessary horizontal floating and removed
background
 * ![69871] merged r69857 from trunk
 * ![69865] Removed old references to check-php, which has since been removed
 * ![69843] Moved form session error set up from Form constructor to method so it can be used again if need be
 * ![69840] Added !SiteTreeActionsTest
 * ![69839] Merged r69410 from trunk
 * ![69838] Merged r69409 and r69410 from trunk
 * ![69749] Fixed Sitetree expand and collapse icons alignment in FF3
 * ![69717] added support for :-) as well as :) in the Similes
 * ![69706] search interface design improvements
 * ![69686] Updated correct HTTPRequest class for @deprecated notice on HTTP::sendFileToBrowser()
 * ![69611] Updated cms master tables
 * ![69592] Added french translation (see #3290)
 * ![69591] Added french translation (see #3290)
 * ![69562] merge patch from ajshort: allow db build without running requireDefaultRecords
 * ![69514] fixed !ModelAdmin right tab layout. Removed scrollbar off the tab strip. Ticket #2900
 * ![69419] Code syntax tidy up
 * ![69369] Removed @todo from Text->!ContextSummary as it's already done
 * ![69368] Added phpDoc to Text->!ContextSummary() $string argument
 * ![69348] Added todo and phpDoc to Text->!ContextSummary()
 * ![69249] Disable caching in !RestfulService test
 * ![69248] Removed debug message
 * ![69244] Added test for !FieldSet->renameField() to test method behaviour
 * ![69226] Added tests for Text->!LimitWordCountXML()
 * ![69225] Added phpDoc to Convert::raw2xml() and Convert::raw2js()
 * ![69221] Removed comment that isn't appropriate
 * ![69220] Added !TextTest for testing Text class methods
 * ![69219] Updated phpDoc cautionary message on Text->!LimitCharacters()
 * ![69218] Added documentation to various Text class methods for limiting field values
 * ![69206] logical bug in !FormScaffolder
 * ![69205] translation
 * ![68973] reorganized layout of bbcode list elements to move longer ones to bottom row for BBCode popouts
 * ![68858] renamed $json to $xml in XMLDataFormatter
 * ![68853] added link to all Comments feed in Page Comments
 * ![68771] Updated language tables
 * ![68763] translation
 * ![68760] Making Folder->getCMSFields() translatable
 * ![68759] translation
 * ![68758] Making CTF save button translatable
 * ![68753] translation
 * ![68749] translation
 * ![68748] translation
 * ![68747] translation
 * ![68743] Translation
 * ![68742] Translation
 * ![68741] translation
 * ![68600] Removed debug message
 * ![68534] Hardcoded yoursite.com in assets treeview (see #3230)
 * ![68531] fixed javascript initialization bug in !SecurityAdmin_left.js (see #3211)
 * ![68526] Hiding border around `<fieldset>`s in !ModelAdmin add form (see #3214)
 * ![68517] fixed php notices on !AssetAdmin (see #3187)
 * ![68457] formatting in Security.php
 * ![68195] Styling for input.disabled
 * ![68178] updated translations
 * ![68162] Updated language master table
 * ![68161] Updated language master table
 * ![68147] Updated cms lang master table
 * ![68029] Added whitespace after <!-- end include to be consistent
 * ![67705] formatting
 * ![67689] Documented !ClassInfo::subclassesFor() and added unit tests
 * ![67682] Updated phpDoc for Requirements::customCSS() and Requirements_Backend::customCSS()
 * ![67676] Code formatting cleanup
 * ![67675] Code formatting cleanup
 * ![67468] Removed whitespace after ?> end PHP tag
 * ![67467] Removed whitespace after ?> end PHP tag
 * ![67424] Tidy up of Form.ss template in sapphire/templates/Includes
 * ![67380] Documentation in Email class
 * ![67327] Added test for !ErrorPage
 * ![67301] Declared Director::direct() and Director::test() as static functions to avoid confusion
 * ![67300] Code formatting improvements for Director->test()
 * ![67295] Re-enabled calls to updateCMSFields() accidentally disabled in r67294
 * ![67293] Removing custom mock controller from !SearchFormTest, now handled in !FunctionalTest (see r67291)
 * ![67230] ImageEditor indentation
 * ![67213] Merged r66794 from trunk (related to #3192)
 * ![67188] fixed typo in email_template docblock and added note from sean
 * ![67176] Reverted r64384 and re-added Email_Template (see #3183)
 * ![67083] Documentation for !StaticExporter
 * ![67075] removed debug code
 * ![66958] Deprecated internal property !SearchForm->$numPerPage, use $pageLength instead
 * ![66944] merged from trunk
 * ![66942] merged r66670 from trunk
 * ![66939] Merged r66681 from trunk
 * ![66819] Code formatting conventions in HTTPRequest->param()
 * ![66803] phpDoc comments for !ModelAdmin->import()
 * ![66800] Added code example of $model_importers array item
 * ![66751] Reverted replacement of jQuery.js with minified version, we're doing minification on the fly, and there's
jQuery-packed.js as a readymade alternative (see r66708)
 * ![66748] Revered jquery/orig folder, not necessary as we have an unminified jQuery.js anyway (see r66717)
 * ![66747] Reverted reference to jquery-packed.js which causes problems by double minification in cms (see r66735)
 * ![66745] Revered accidental deletion of jQuery.js in r66719
 * ![66736] Formatting in Permission::checkMember()
 * ![66735] fixed path include for jquery
 * ![66700] merged r66672 from trunk
 * ![66643] Removed unused action "waitingon" from CMSMain::$allowed_actions
 * ![66642] Removed !TaskList remnants of old cms workflow code
 * ![66640] Removed redundant code
 * ![66637] Code formatting of !isset($member) on !SiteTree->canAddChildren() for consistency with other can*() methods
 * ![66636] Renamed to correct updateCMSActions() in php comment
 * ![66631] Removed unused private static $dataobject_select in File
 * ![66630] phpDoc comments for File->getAbsoluteSize()
 * ![66628] Code formatting cleanup on !CheckboxSetField->Field()
 * ![66624] Added tests for checking extra class was added to !DropdownField
 * ![66623] Added tests for checking extra class was added to !FormField subclasses (!TextField, !EmailField and
!OptionsetField)
 * ![66615] Readd of end php tag as per coding conventions
 * ![66614] Added missing end php tag for !ImageEditor, as per coding conventions
 * ![66613] Removed whitespace after end php tag for !AssetTableField
 * ![66612] Removed commented out code that shouldn't be lying around
 * ![66542] actually allow youtube / blip videos to be embedded into the cms content area
 * ![66426] added setter function to write_js_on_body() so I can override the settings
 * ![66386] SecurityAdmin code formatting cleanup
 * ![66385] Removed old references to "rightbottom", which is now obsolete and caused a big box to appear in the CMS
sometimes
 * ![66373] Tidied up messy template syntax in !LeftAndMain.ss
 * ![66333] Documentation for !ConfirmedPasswordField
 * ![66322] Documentation for !SearchForm
 * ![66318] Coding conventions, inconsistent use of tabs and spaces
 * ![66317] Code conventions (spaces should be between operator characters)
 * ![66311] Removed old references from workflow in !SiteTree and !VirtualPage (!AssignedToID and !RequestedByID were
old properites of a workflow page type)
 * ![66310] Removed old workflow instances in the cms module. See ticket #3044
 * ![66302] Added isset($_SERVER['HTTP_HOST']) checks to Director->isDev() and Director->isTest() - these environment
variables are not available in CLI mode, and show up as PHP notices in a default cli-script/sake execution
 * ![66270] Code formatting in !FormField
 * ![66167] Fixed class naming in !LeftAndMainDecorator.php
 * ![66093] Removed debug code in !AjaxUniqueTextField
 * ![66092] Fixed PHP Notice in !SiteTree
 * ![66024] Removed debug code committed in r65554
 * ![65616] Removed unused code from !SearchForm, commented out junk etc
 * ![65537] removed debug commits from r65523 in Folder.php
 * ![65516] Updated merge-info
 * ![65485] type enviroment -> environment
 * ![65484] Removed obsolete code from !MySQLDatabase
 * ![65458] Removed duplicate dev/simpletest, already present in thirdparty/simpletest
 * ![65457] PHPDoc for !FunctionalTest
 * ![65446] Tidied up !ThumbnailStripField->getimages() formatting
 * ![65445] Tidied up !ThumbnailStripField->getflash() formatting
 * ![65444] Tidied up !ThumbnailStripField->getimages() formatting
 * ![65443] Tidied up formatting - spaces to tabs
 * ![65437] Changed die() to user_error() so that correct error level is returned
 * ![65418] Tidied up messy code formatting
 * ![65409] Tidied up !AssetAdmin->!SiteTreeAsUL()
 * ![65398] images for the new imageeditor which didnt get included in the patch
 * ![65292] JS translations in !LeftAndMain
 * ![65233] Removed redundant code
 * ![65205] phpDoc of !HtmlEditorField
 * ![65190] Improve robustness of some of the widget definition
 * ![65149] Moved tasks from sapphire/cli to new folder sapphire/tasks
 * ![65146] Fixed PHP Notices in Member.php
 * ![65145] Fixed PHP Notices in !TreeMultiSelectField
 * ![65135] Check if !OldPassword data exists before running checkPassword()
 * ![65127] Code formatting in !ComplexTableField
 * ![65126] Code formatting in CMSMenuItem
 * ![65124] Formatting in Group.php
 * ![65095] Disabled !LeftAndMainTest, now covered by CMSMenuTest
 * ![65075] Updated master language tables
 * ![65074] Updated master language tables
 * ![65067] formatting
 * ![65058] Restructured code in Object.php to consistently have properties and important methods like __call() at the
top of definitions (no logic changes). Added minor documentation.
 * ![65052] rearranged methods in i18nTextCollector
 * ![65043] Collecting entities for language master table with new i18nTextCollector functionality. The table is now
sorted alphabetically by namespace and entity. Entities now include more translatable statics from !DataObject
subclasses like $db, $has_one etc.
 * ![65035] Collecting entities for language master table with new i18nTextCollector functionality. The table is now
sorted alphabetically by namespace and entity. Entities now include more translatable statics from !DataObject
subclasses like $db, $has_one etc.
 * ![65025] Moved i18n tests into sapphire/tests/i18n subfolder
 * ![65022] documentation for i18nTextCollector
 * ![65021] package information for !ModuleManager
 * ![65019] Moved js unit tests from sapphire/javascript/tests to sapphire/tests/javascript to have a consistent
location for all tests on server- and clientside
 * ![64986] Renamed variable to avoid confusion in !SecurityAdmin->!SiteTreeAsUL()
 * ![64982] Tests for r64981
 * ![64871] Code formatting in !TextareaField->Field()
 * ![64850] Code formatting cleanup
 * ![64786] Added deprecated note to !ConfirmedFormAction
 * ![64771] phpDoc update for !ContentController->getMenu()
 * ![64733] Code formatting cleanup in !AssetAdmin->addfolder()
 * ![64560] Temporarily disabled Debug::message() calls in i18nTextCollector as they're disturbing unit test output and
we currently dont have context switches for this
 * ![64559] Adjusted i18nTextCollector to use !DataObject->i18nCollectStatics()
 * ![64557] Unnecessary check of trim() twice on !TextareaField->Field()
 * ![64555] whitespace removal
 * ![64551] Documentation tweaks in !TextareaField
 * ![64550] Convert::raw2att() isn't required because !FormField->createTag() already does this
 * ![64505] Added to @deprecated note for !TypeDropdown about why this class shouldn't be used
 * ![64503] phpDoc changes in !LeftAndMain - removal of @usedby which doesn't exist, replaced with @uses on the remote
function
 * ![64502] Code formatting changes to be more consistent
 * ![64498] Moved !CollectionController_Results template into genericviews module
 * ![64460] documenting my new method, correct a coding convention about whitespace
 * ![64442] moved !RestfulServerTest from cms to sapphire module, same as the actual !RestfulServer class
 * ![64441] moved !RestfulServerTest from cms to sapphire module, same as the actual !RestfulServer class
 * ![64429] deprecation notes
 * ![64419] Misc deprecation notes
 * ![64418] Changed visibility of !SiteTree->getClassDropdown()
 * ![64415] documentation
 * ![64414] Removed unused !DatabaseAdmin->makeURL()
 * ![64413] documentation
 * ![64412] Marked some Convert methods as deprecated, as their purpose is unclear, they're neither documented nor
tested. Stuff like Convert::xml2js() is just way too fuzzy
 * ![64411] phpDoc comment error fix
 * ![64409] Changed visibility of Convert::recursiveXMLToArray
 * ![64406] Tidied up code formatting for !MemberLoginForm->forgotPassword() to be clearer
 * ![64404] Security->!LostPasswordForm() code formatting changes for clarity
 * ![64403] Moved Controller::init() to top of file
 * ![64400] Misc deprecation notes
 * ![64397] phpDoc for Versioned::get_by_stage() to be consistent with Versioned::get_one_by_stage()
 * ![64396] Removed deprecated method addmember() from CMSMain - this should be contained on !SecurityAdmin instead
 * ![64395] Removed commented out code in CMSMain->!PageTypes()
 * ![64385] Misc deprecation fixes
 * ![64382] Misc deprecation notices
 * ![64369] Removed Group_Unsecure which was never used
 * ![64364] Removed Director::addRules() item for Unsubscribe_Controller that should will be done by the Newsletter
_config.php file instead
 * ![64362] Fixed !FileTest for changes to getFileType() on the File class
 * ![64356] Tweaked text of file type descriptions slightly
 * ![64344] Whitespace changes in !TextField
 * ![64338] delete some unnecessary duplicated variable in a assignment statement.
 * ![64322] Removed useless comment and commented out code that went along with it in Group class
 * ![64319] fixed php notice error in !DataObject
 * ![64312] Todos for !ObjectTest
 * ![64301] Added mergeinfo
 * ![64300] Added mergeinfo
 * ![64261] Moved HTTPRequest constructor to beginning of method definitions
 * ![64079] Documentation in i18n class
 * ![64068] Removed !CollectionController language strings from master table
 * ![64020] Removed subtree mergeinfo
 * ![64014] Formatting
 * ![64009] Swapped $mainFields and $fields assignments in Member->getCMSFields() to reflect what they're actually
containing
 * ![64008] Syntax fix in !CliTestReporter which was causing wrong array indices
 * ![64006] Fixed PHP notice in CLITestReporter
 * ![63985] Documentation
 * ![63982] Removed unnecessary $this->extend() on SSReport->getCMSFields()
 * ![63961] Updated inconsistent documentation on SSReport
 * ![63959] Updated SSReport class documentation to make sense
 * ![63958] Documentation and @package phpDoc code additions to !ReportAdmin and SSReport
 * ![63937] Reformatting
 * ![63898] Add warning for deprecated function.
 * ![63897] Change memory limit to -1 on publishall to stop sapphire running out of memory on unit tests.
 * ![63873] Updated entities from translate.silverstripe.com
 * ![63869] Updated entities from translate.silverstripe.com
 * ![63864] Updated language master table
 * ![63861] Updated language master table
 * ![63856] Reverted manual setting of i18n fallback strings in r63839, fixed original problem (wrong entity name)
 * ![63840] Renamed Report to SSReport as it was conflicting with project code
 * ![63822] Fix to !SiteTreeTest's data fixtures
 * ![63815] Tidied up argument list for Object::create() in !ComplexTableField->!AddForm()
 * ![63802] Fixed JS undefined errors with 'addgroup' and 'deletegroup' elements
 * ![63801] Fixed JS undefined error with 'Loading' element
 * ![63790] Line break between static variables on !SecurityAdmin
 * ![63766] removed subtree mergeinfo on !ModelAdmin_Results.ss in preparation for client branch merge
 * ![63760] Documentation for Form class
 * ![63753] Code formatting cleanup
 * ![63752] Very minor whitespace change
 * ![63747] Removed !PageTypes directory from cms which is not used anymore
 * ![63680] Documentation and formatting in SSViewer and Controller
 * ![63657] Documentation for HTTPRequest and !RequestHandlingData
 * ![63655] Documentation for HTTPRequest and !RequestHandlingData
 * ![63632] Removed scaffolded header field in !DataObject->scaffoldFormFields()
 * ![63617] Documentation
 * ![63616] Documentation
 * ![63608] fixed formatting on no images found
 * ![63568] Documentation
 * ![63531] Documentation in !DataObject
 * ![63530] Reverted my email address with something more spambot safe from r63489 ;)
 * ![63492] removed `< and >` characters from @author phpdoc token
 * ![63491] phpdoc tweaks
 * ![63490] phpdoc tweaks
 * ![63489] Filled in Ingo's email for phpdoc since he failed to do it himself
 * ![63469] Formatting in Member
 * ![63468] Documentation for Form
 * ![63466] Documentation in !ErrorPage

#### Minor Changes

 * ![63459] Code formatting inconsistency
 * ![63458] Added TODOs for areas of code that needs some work, either in documentation or code cleanup.
 * ![63456] Committed missing files related to r63452
 * ![63453] Fixed wrong position of return array() in !ReportAdmin->showWithEditForm()
 * ![63452] Documentation and TODO for !ReportAdmin methods
 * ![63449] Fix undefined variable error in !ManifestBuilder::get_manifest_info()
 * ![63420] Code formatting changes for readability and consistency in !DropdownField->Field()
 * ![63390] Ticket #2869 Fixed PHP notice in Director::forceWWW()
 * ![63388] Fix PHP notice in checking $_SERVER['HTTPS']
 * ![63385] Fixed PHP notices in !ListboxField->Field() by defining the variables first
 * ![63370] documentation
 * ![63355] allow tinymce to suck down script code at least in tinymce
 * ![63339] todos for !DataObjectTest
 * ![63293] Documentation
 * ![63180] Added externals for thirdparty JSON library
 * ![63179] Moved JSON library to thirdparty externals
 * ![63178] Reverted accidental commit to main.php from  r63177
 * ![63174] Documentation for image uploads
 * ![63156] Reverted accidental disabling of !ManifestBuilderTest cleanup code
 * ![63155] Temporarily disabled RSSFeedTest as its overriding environment variables that should be handled by Director
class with Director::setBaseURL() (which is currently not fully working). Added stub-tests for Director.
 * ![63127] Fix phpdoc parsing error
 * ![63125] Fix phpdoc parsing error
 * ![63124] Fix phpdoc parsing error
 * ![63123] Fix phpdoc parsing error
 * ![63122] Fix phpdoc parsing error
 * ![63121] Fix phpdoc parsing error
 * ![63081] Added CMS->!SiteTreeAsUL() to $allowed_actions (#2733)
 * ![63080] Removed stale version number from `<meta name="generator">` tag (#1908)
 * ![62877] Added some more api doku for !DataObject::
 * ![62845] Added documentation and TODOs for !RestfulServer
 * ![62843] Documentation and formatting for Debug class
 * ![62842] Documentation
 * ![62841] Added documentation to !DataObject about permission handling
 * ![62484] Changed console.log() to console.error() in ajax error handling
 * ![62470] documentation
 * ![62462] documentation
 * ![62461] documentation
 * ![62424] FileField->Field() code formatting changes
 * ![62313] HTMLVarchar->scaffoldFormField() was referencing a class name of different case that didn't exist (change it
to the correct one to be sure)
 * ![61840] fixed comment on !MathSpamProtection
 * ![61826] #2696 - Add message when trying to load the CMS with javascript
 * ![61825] Fixed PHP notice
 * ![61702] Remove commented out code
 * ![61484] added @deprecated note in PHPdoc to show that Email_Template is deprecated
 * ![61483] phpdoc of @package and @subpackage to reflect the actual package and subpackage
 * ![61482] comment changes to allow better readability of comments of what we're testing
 * ![61481] Additions to !FieldSetTest to test removeByName() and removeFieldsFromTab()
 * ![61217] setRelationAutoSetting function adding
 * ![61164] Fixed PHP notice in !CheckboxSetField when transforming to readonly
 * ![61161] PHPdoc for !FieldSet->replaceField()
 * ![61160] PHP notice fix for !FileIFrameField->Field()
 * ![60949] Added !FieldSetTest to the test library
 * ![60409] Re-activated tabstrip.js in !LeftAndMain (merge error?)
 * ![60408] Renamed jquery_improvement.js to plural form (consistent with prototype_improvements.js)
 * ![60407] Re-enabled !DataObjectDecoratorTest
 * ![60406] Moved sapphire/misc* to sapphire/thirdparty and sapphire/integration
 * ![60401] Moved !ScaffoldComplexTableField to separate file
 * ![60400] Removed !DataObject->mapRelationshipObjects() - incomplete functionality
 * ![60398] Removed sapphire/tools
 * ![60371] Documentation
 * ![60370] Removed debug code from Member.php
 * ![60367] removed obsolete code from !DataObject.php
 * ![60217] syntax error
 * ![60216] syntax error
 * ![60210] Documentation
 * ![60157] Fix php notice
 * ![59518] Fixed crazy messed up indentation in !TableField
 * ![59279] wording for "IP Range" description


#### Other

 * ![71921] Undo the change committed in r71918 since the commit message is missing
 * ![71758] Improved !DataObject validation tests to use PHPUnit's setExpectedException stuff.
 * ![71755] Disable xdebug in the test runner, because it has a habit of causing bus errors
 * ![71170] BUGIX: CMS UI search spinner style tweak
 * ![71169] BUGIX: CMS UI changed search spinner, hide search button while processing (better interaction feedback)
 * ![71035] Include the media widget into the CMS
 * ![71034] Removed media plugin code that got copied into ssbuttons
 * ![70995] Disable basicauth in !RestfulServiceTest
 * ![70900] BUGIFX tweak to navigator layout and tidying up unnecessary styles
 * ![70894] BUGIFX tweak to navigator layout
 * ![70860] Made selection of custom security templates easier
 * ![70845] Don't let content negotiator clobber the mime types of things other than HTML & XHTML
 * ![70844] Replaced HTTPReponse settings of Content-type header with Content-Type, to match !RestfulServer
 * ![70747] 2. make Email_!BounceRecord::canCreate() return false; so that it can not be manully create from CRM,
instead, it should create through email buncing system.
 * ![70740] Undoing change committed in r 70734
 * ![70738] Undoing change committed in r 70734
 * ![70725] 2. Not all !DataObject has a 'Title' database field, but all !DataObject has a 'Title' field due to function
!DataObject::getTitle() exists.
 * ![70702] Merged patch submitted by ajshort that calls loadDataForm on a newly created object in !ModelAdmin so that 
properties of the object are loaded properly
 * ![70372] fixed ajax button alignment
 * ![70303] cms ui: site tree tools visual update
 * ![70240] cms ui: fixed line background to drop down from root node
 * ![70239] cms ui: fixed line background for open nested lists
 * ![70237] cms ui fix: styles for uniform site tree line
 * ![70235] cms ui fix: make site tree hierarchy line uniformly dotted
 * ![70206] cms ui fix: adding separator above allow drag and drop
 * ![70143] IE6 ui fixe for search filter date input width
 * ![70141] IE6 ui fixes for calendar in search filters (positioning and when sidebar is expanded)
 * ![70136] ui fixes for calendar in search filters (positioning and when sidebar is expanded)
 * ![70127] 
 * ![70091] stopped null properties being added when images inserted in cms (hspace, vspace, align)
 * ![70090] Added missing Decimal->nullValue method.
 * ![69983] Removed unnecessary db query in CMS tree generation
 * ![69982] Pre-cache page version numbers when querying CMS tree for query efficiency
 * ![69981] Added Versioned::prepopulate_versionnumber_cache() to allow for querying efficiencies
 * ![69977] Added cache to Permission::checkMember() to reduce the number of queries
 * ![69933] Reverted change because it wasn't necessary
 * ![69925] EHANCEMENT #3326 hamish: Added Image::getOrientation()
 * ![69815] Added getter to retrieve alternative database name.
 * ![69731] Better error messages when !HasManyComplexTableField can't configure itself properly.
 * ![69681] See #3275
 * ![69382] Fixed label of back button
 * ![69350] Simplified implementation of !FieldSet::makeReadonlyField()
 * ![69349] Simplified implementation of !FieldSet::makeReadonlyField()
 * ![69052] Fixed URL in the list of tasks.
 * ![68945] Fixed loading of CMS toolbar with the !HtmlEditorField
 * ![68873] Improved rendering of [php] tags in BBCode view
 * ![68700] Made !CalendarDataField JS more self-suffficient
 * ![68598] Added !SearchForm::classesToSearch() to set the classes that you want it to search.  Still limited to
!SiteTree and File but you can exclude one of those.
 * ![68474] Merged r67482 to branches/2.3 - let db/build add auto_increment
 * ![68326] Added ability for comment authors to leave a URL as a separate form field
 * ![67877] PaginationSummary return all pages by default
 * ![67793] Added !PaginationSummary function that enable !DataObjectSet to display a portion of page list
 * ![67776] Added headers_sent() check to header() call in main.php to stop it from being so brittle.
 * ![67583] Restore requirements after sending email
 * ![67432] Improved graphs displayed on dev/viewmodel
 * ![67427] Added diagrams to dev/viewmodel
 * ![67414] Added simple model viewer at dev/viewmodel
 * ![67401] - including greybox.js had caused the screen to become unscrollable because of an (unrelated) inclusion of
!LeftAndMain.js which sets `<body>` to overflow:hidden on javascript page load
 * ![67194] Merged r67152 from trunk
 * ![67169] Add !TableListField::setFieldList()
 * ![67165] Added !ModelAdmin:: for changing the class used to generate results tables
 * ![67131] Moved !LegacyIDs from !BlogEntry and File to Decorators
 * ![67114] Added LegacyID for keeping orginal ID. Used for site migration
 * ![66941] Fixed !SiteTreePermissionsTest login failure tests
 * ![66923] #1885: Fixed safari bold, italic, underline by removing HTML scrubbing.
 * ![66889] Better checking of tabstrip stuff
 * ![66834] Removed call-time pass by reference from !CsvBulkLoader
 * ![66824] Removed unnecessary updateCMSFields call; !DataObject::getCMSFields does this for us
 * ![66719] getting things tidied up
 * ![66717] trying to get jquery to stick
 * ![66712] packed jquery
 * ![66708] packed jquery and jquery ui
 * ![66645] DataObject::relObject() throws an exception rather than an error so that it can be caught
 * ![66639] Set default level for !HeaderField
 * ![66634] Added white background for tabs in all places; not just the right frame
 * ![66626] Allow passing of columns to !ColumnSelectionField() and allow different !ColumnSelectionField() values to
influence the result columsn
 * ![66582] Added support to !DataObject::relObject() for looking at $casting to get information about the relation -
good for dynamic relations
 * ![66546] Fix incorrect logic in r66544
 * ![66544] Make sure only fields that exist can be autocompleted on !MemberTableFields, and never autocomplete on
password.
 * ![66431] 
 * ![66394] 1. Add note to each record in 1-many relation. Add the tab "Notes" for showing/editing/deleting notes of a
record.
 * ![66356] Merged pre-2.3-oct08 into 2.3 (via trunk)
 * ![66353] Merge pre-2.3-oct08 into 2.3 (via trunk)
 * ![66350] Fix to !LeftAndMain to ensure that jquery doesn't break other admin sections
 * ![66304] Fixed bug in test makefile
 * ![66296] Build database before testing, for !RestfulService test, etc
 * ![66267] Return an HTTPResponse consistently from controllers
 * ![66265] Fixed !RequirementsTest
 * ![66225] #2771: Fix SQLQuery::filtersOnID() (wakeless)
 * ![66192] #2635 - More informative errors in !DataObject (simon_w)
 * ![66103] FIX: permission migrator for missing groups
 * ![66086] Merged pre-2.3-oct08 into branches/2.3 (via trunk)
 * ![66084] Merged pre-2.3-oct08 into branches/2.3 (via trunk)
 * ![66008] Boundary condition check for top-level pages with 'inherit' permission
 * ![65981] Update sapphire so that it can run with the default .htaccess and mysite/_config.php files provided in the
phpinstaller.  If database config is missing, then redirect to install.php
 * ![65971] Include tabstrip js and css for modeladmin
 * ![65970] Fixed WYSIWYG styling
 * ![65967] Added validation for !DataObject::db, has_one, has_many, many_many, belongs_many_many properties, so that
improper use of the array syntax doesn't raise strange bugs elsewhere.
 * ![65959] #3068 - Fixed memory issue in IE
 * ![65939] Replace source view with one based on codepress
 * ![65938] Added advcode tinymce plugin that is a wrapper around codepress
 * ![65915] Set default view/edit permissions
 * ![65913] Added light blue colouring to notinmenu items
 * ![65912] Added notinmenu class to CMS tree items that aren't in menus
 * ![65861] Fixed dropdown-based !ModelAdmin navigation
 * ![65859] Fixed root node not displaying correctly
 * ![65828] Removed console debug messages for !ThumbnailStripField
 * ![65824] Merged in image search capabilities from trunk version - r65820, r65823
 * ![65802] Fixes for IE support of script tags being down the bottom
 * ![65789] #2991 - Fixed change detection in mce fields
 * ![65783] Fixed fatal error in !CommentTableField:
 * ![65782] New test for old URL redirection
 * ![65781] #2679: Auto-redirect renamed pages
 * ![65778] Get sapphire to self-allocate at least 64M of memory, if possible.
 * ![65735] Fixed media-type selection on demand in IE
 * ![65718] Added livequery to leftandmain install
 * ![65717] Refactored tabstrip.js to use livequery for loading
 * ![65716] Refactored tabstrip.js to use livequery for loading
 * ![65709] Removed time limit when minifying files and disabled processing of multiple files if on dev.
 * ![65673] Change back to english on teardown
 * ![65530] No execution time limit on test runner
 * ![65529] Replaced 300-second 'long execution' times with unlimited
 * ![65524] Merged branches/2.2
 * ![65523] Merged from branches/2.2
 * ![65507] Ensure that Requirements backend instance is preserved between tests
 * ![65506] Reformatted memory usage to be more concise
 * ![65503] #2997 - Added `<% require %>` tag to SSViewer
 * ![65471] Added default for HTTP_USER_AGENT
 * ![65465] Cleaned up the commented-code
 * ![65438] Bugfixes to Requirements alterations
 * ![65436] ARCHITECTURE #3034 wakeless: Make Requirements mockable by pushing the meat of the functionality to
Requirements_Backend
 * ![65407] Removed redundant code
 * ![65397] Removed redundant code
 * ![65385] dquote> API CHANGE: Simplified Core.php manifest include to just call !ManifestBuilder::include_manifest() -
manifest takes care of its own cache file
 * ![65332] IMPROVEMENT Fix tab display and button position when adding a record (ticket #3029)
 * ![65289] IMPROVEMENT moved managed models' forms to one panel (ticket #2898)
 * ![65287] #2135 - Disallow XSS bug in development !RestfulService use
 * ![65252] Added deprecation method for !LeftAndMain::add_menu_item()
 * ![65229] API CAHNGE: Allow augmentPopulateDefaults on data object decorators
 * ![65189] Added spellchecker to CMS
 * ![65175] Reverted previous change, as !MemberTableField has it's own use of sourceFilter - not the most documentation
situation however.
 * ![65173] 
 * ![65150] Note: Use dev/tasks/!UpgradeSiteTreePermissionSchemaTask/run to migrate legacy data to the new schema as
outlined above
 * ![65140] Simplified !CliTestReporter output so that buildbot can read it
 * ![64952] Text scaffolds to a !TextareaField, not a !TextField
 * ![64947] #2975 - Malformed javascript language string (ajshort)
 * ![64896] In general all Form Fields should imply with this rule if a page contain mulitiple forms, but this is not
under our current developing cycle, since our form fields validation is changing to use jQuery.
 * ![64880] Deleted !SmallerThanFilter - please use !LessThanFilter
 * ![64863] Changed default # of rows on HTMLEditorField from 15 to 30
 * ![64862] Fixed TinyMCE stylihg
 * ![64839] Fixed CMS uploading
 * ![64814] call $this->extend('updateFieldLabels', $labels) in !FieldLabels() to get its decorator's customized field
labels
 * ![64778] Removed scrubbing of the HTML
 * ![64768] #2957 - Fixed entity decoding in Convert::html2raw
 * ![64760] Fixed bug in tinymce_ssbuttons plugin inclusion
 * ![64759] Added !LinkText field to link inserter
 * ![64684] Removed sapphire/images/fe_icons - these will be put in the userforms module instead, where the !FieldEditor
 * ![64470] Removed junk text from CSSContentParserTest
 * ![64368] HTTP:add_cache_headers() - don't throw warning when  not passed
 * ![64345] dquote> API CHANGE: HTTP::add_cache_headers() now designed to manipulate an HTTPResponse object rather than
add headers directly
 * ![64343] Removed !TextField_Disabled - this is unnecessary
 * ![64340] Included jquery.js before prototype.
 * ![64339] Implemented a jQuery based version of documents.getElementsBySelector
 * ![64326] API: add !CurrencyField_Readonly
 * ![64325] API: add funcion !TableField_Item::!IsAddRow()
 * ![64324] Feature: attach extraClasses to a !FormField when it is transform to readonly
 * ![64323] API: add !TextField_Disabled
 * ![64152] Removed #! entry from cli-script.php; its unreliable and cli-script.php should be called as 'php
cli-script.php' instead
 * ![64070] ENHANCMENT Making !ModelAdmin translatable (#2874)
 * ![63938] Improved backtrace generation in test reporter, to limit the amount of unnecessary waffle.
 * ![63912] BGFIX: #2587 Fix HTTPS detection on IIS (mackeyn)
 * ![63904] BGFIX: #2527 - Fix mysql version detection on hosts with custom mysql version names (!HakTom)
 * ![63892] Added PHP doc for the !ValidationException thrown by !DataObject::write
 * ![63891] DataObject::write now throws a !ValidationException rather than calling user_error if the call to
!DataObject::validate fails. This allows the validation exception to be caught and handled by tests or other
controllers.
 * ![63883] Added missing !TableListField_printable.ss template.
 * ![63882] Corrected reverted merge. !ComplexTableField::setPopupSize is now present.
 * ![63843] Removed legacy Report.php
 * ![63842] BUGF Renamed Report class to SSReport, file name wasn't altered but class name was
 * ![63837] Updated Member's getCMSFields() to consistently work with fields in a tab
 * ![63821] Moved error_reporting setting from main.php to Core.php
 * ![63820] Removed relational CTFs reliance on !DataObject->!ClassName
 * ![63807] Merged from branches/nzct-trunk. Use 'svn log -c `<changeset>` -g' for full commit message. Merge includes
stability fixes and minor refactor of !TableListField and !ComplexTableField.
 * ![63806] Merged from branches/nzct-trunk. Use 'svn log -c `<changeset>` -g' for full commit message. Merge includes
stability fixes and minor refactor of !TableListField and !ComplexTableField.
 * ![63748] 
 * ![63745] Updated Member::isInGroup() to function as well as being deprecated
 * ![63733] Added get data to a form submission of !SearchForm/search, so that !ResultAssembly is passed
 * ![63715] Updated errorMessage() call in !ModelAdmin to actually show the message to the user.  For example, 404s
return messages of the form 'your search returned no results'
 * ![63636] Added instructions to try and prevent #2901 issues reoccurring
 * ![63625] ENHANCMENT Using errorMessage() instead of statusMessage('bad') for !ModelAdmin.js
 * ![63594] Fixed !FormField::createTag() generation for empty `<select>` tag, which meant that page version history was
displayed in single-language mode
 * ![63583] Updated file functions to use HTTPRequest::send_file
 * ![63582] Added tests for security group export
 * ![63580] Break sake dev/tests/all status dots onto lines of 80
 * ![63552] Updated !BankAccountField to allow setting it to blank without a notice-level error
 * ![63548] #2397 - Fixed HTMLEditorField style dropdown
 * ![63546] Added groups field on member details, so that you can add members to other group
 * ![63545] Added dev/modules/remove and cleaned up rebuilding code on add and remove module
 * ![63537] Fixed dumb error in my makeRelative change
 * ![63535] Added security for experimental module manager
 * ![63534] Added initial module manager API, with the capability of adding a module to svn:externals
 * ![63532] Secured !SapphireInfo
 * ![63531] ENHANCMENT Checking for valid has_one relationship on dot-notation-usage in !DataObject->update
 * ![63506] Don't claim that there's an invalid password if no password is set - members may be created for newsletters,
etc.
 * ![63488] fixed fix position of action area (status message and ajax action buttons) in IE6 using javascript
 * ![63452] 
 * ![63431] Fixed bug in cli-script argument parsing
 * ![63389] Reverted r63388
 * ![63388] 
 * ![63383] removed debug::show
 * ![63382] - commented out this.style.position = "absolute"; in !LeftAndMain.js
 * ![63251] Reverted en_US.php changes from r63249
 * ![63113] Turned dos line endings into unix
 * ![63078] Link Editor: Close button dissapears in Firefox 3 (#2478)
 * ![63020] EHANCEMENT #2853 - You can now use db/build instead of db/build?flush=1
 * ![62998] Fixed bug with !ComplexTableField inappropriately referencing a relation field that doesn't exist
 * ![62912] Added status notifications to cli test runs
 * ![62866] Corrected layout of field groups
 * ![62865] Replaced alert()s in !UniqueFields.js with statusMessage()s, to be less obnoxious
 * ![62756] Fixed bug publishing homepage using Director::test
 * ![62692] Added !CountryDropdownField::defaultToVisitorCountry(false):
 * ![62689] Removed save button from add form
 * ![62654] Update test runner so that password validation config isn't tested by default
 * ![62653] This results in more reliable log-in redirection
 * ![62648] Fixed bug with preivous !CheckboxSetField change
 * ![62641] Fixed loadDataFrom for !CheckboxSetFields that are used to edit a many-many relation, if loadBlanks is set
to true
 * ![62599] comment Debug.traceback that occur when the field is a tab
 * ![62386] Added empty string as a default (first item)
 * ![62335] Improved !ModelAdmin.js - removed formData and showRecord, creating .fn('loadForm') instead; used livequery
more to reduce the amount of behaviour reapplication that was necesary.
 * ![62334] Updated !ModelAdmin's javascript to provide more status indicator (loading icons, success/failure messages),
using HTTP status codes and custom status text.
 * ![62331] Fixed !ConfirmedPasswordField validation for min password length
 * ![62325] 
 * ![62324] 
 * ![62322] Merged branches/roa into trunk
 * ![62321] Merged branches/roa into trunk
 * ![62318] Add another test for addFieldToTab when creating tabs
 * ![62312] SearchContext generates SELECT DISTINCT query rather than SELECT, so that duplicate records aren't shown as
a result of certain search filters
 * ![62311] MemberTableField delete just removes the member from the group
 * ![62310] Fixed !MemberTableField ajax actions after a search
 * ![62295] Allow !MetaTags to be extended by a decorator.
 * ![62287] Introduce notion of using HTTP status text to pass status message to the end user
 * ![62278] Reorganised !ModelAdmin javascript to be better structured
 * ![62268] Fixed bugs with #1403 changes made in r62218.
 * ![62267] 
 * ![62213] Made allowed_actions case insensitive
 * ![62188] Null values fixed for PHP 5.3
 * ![62184] Multiple 'protected' variable declaration fixed
 * ![61826] disabled (simon_w)
 * ![61721] Show result-assembly columns so that you read down the column instead of zigzagging
 * ![61720] Removed Created from member summary fields
 * ![61714] adding ?flush=all option which clears all cached templates from the LOLCACHE
 * ![61698] Updated CSV bulk loader to import unix/windows files on a mac server
 * ![61685] TESTS: Added tests for Controller::join_links()
 * ![61634] Windmill test - whacked up timeout on CMS load for slow build slave
 * ![61631] Fixed setup of windmill admin tests
 * ![61630] Disabled across-the-board use of windmill tests in continuous integration; instead a specific build is set
up for it
 * ![61629] Included windmill testing in the continous integration again
 * ![61628] Fixed glitch in test
 * ![61626] Updated windmill tests to use python syntax, as this will scale better
 * ![61614] Fixed bugs in !MemberTableField search
 * ![61613] Fixed bug in !TableListField::ajax_refresh
 * ![61578] added a call to magic method to check extra (crm) permission
 * ![61525] Added EPMU's process control sake
 * ![61523] add Created as summary_fields
 * ![61511] The searchCriteria will be added as $_GET to the form action, rather than that !TableListField's
extraLinkParams
 * ![61509] getSummaryFields() will also get those summary fields defined in Member's decorator applied to the results
and export
 * ![61497] Reverted r61492
 * ![61462] Improved File tests
 * ![61461] Fixed coverage reporting on test runner
 * ![61411] Fixed saving of !TableField and added tests
 * ![61410] Better error message if you have forgotten to set fixture_file
 * ![61370] Undeprecated a critical feature of !TableField, and reimplemented in the Group's permission field.  Cleaned
up its implementation to be more in line with !TableListField
 * ![61351] Fixed display of Permission dropdown in !SecurityAdmin
 * ![61344] Fixed bug with manifest generation
 * ![61184] Merged branches/kiwiselect into trunk
 * ![61155] field, changed to "!MenuTitle" to be consistent with the main CMS site tree and to avoid confusion
 * ![61152] Work to decouple the !ManifestBuilder from the database, so that you can run manifest builder tests without
an active database existing
 * ![61151] introduce double scrolling and thus poor usability
 * ![61136] Fixed bug with !CsvBulkLoader
 * ![61135] uncommmented processRecord that process each record because it was mistakenly commented previously
 * ![61123] $resultsCount now gets int value from loader directly instead of !DataObjectSet
 * ![61122] change the return type of processAll of !CsvBulkLoader from !DataObjectSet to int, the number of affected
row
 * ![61120] modified csv import function documention. It returns number of affected records.
 * ![61067] Made some methods on !SearchFilter public so that !SearchFilters can be co-opted for other purposes. 
Really, moving the magic to a !DataQuery object would be better
 * ![61066] Fixed action handlers on fields of !ResultsForm (notably the !TableListField) by adding querystring
arguments to the Link() of the form.
 * ![61065] Fixed bug in !TableListField sort links
 * ![61064] Fix !FormField::Link() to allow querystrings in the form's action
 * ![61063] Turn off default caching
 * ![61056] Added back button to !ModelAdmin detail views
 * ![60937] Removed double quoute from the from fields as it means field terminator
 * ![60913] Updated !AssetTableField to work with !ComplexTableField updates
 * ![60912] Fixed bug in Member::mapInCMSGroups()
 * ![60911] Reverted Folder::!CanEdit() to its original behaviour; that of returning a many-many join.   Note that this
conflicts with !DataObject::!CanEdit() now.
 * ![60910] Added !ComplexTableField::getCustomFieldsFor() that you can overload in subclasses of !ComplexTableField to
create alternative pop-up forms
 * ![60909] Added table references to many-many join used by scaffolder, to remove 'ambiguous column' bugs
 * ![60907] replaced `<br />` with newline for CSV export
 * ![60886] Removed memory limit for publication
 * ![60885] Added warnings for parts of Member that require the newsletter module.  Note that this code should really be
moved to the newsletter module at some stage.
 * ![60874] Made all sapphire/thirdparty classes _manifest_exclude'd
 * ![60873] Renamed illegal function that was hiding in Time.php
 * ![60870] Removed time-limit for publication process
 * ![60841] Fixed page comment system for new URL handler
 * ![60830] Fixed saving of blank values to the has_one relations on versioned objects
 * ![60829] Fixed !HasManyComplexTableField and !ManyManyComplexTableField in trunk
 * ![60789] Fixed layout of CMS RHS panel to suit new form HTML structure
 * ![60779] Fixed bugs with Image upload fields
 * ![60778] Trap potential data-integrity bug
 * ![60717] Ensure that a theme template is tried before getting a non-theme template
 * ![60711] Added logging of SSViewer and Controller behaviour when using ?debug_request=1
 * ![60664] Added tests for !CheckboxSetField
 * ![60612] Removed notice level error when !ArrayLib::valuekey() is passed an empty array
 * ![60608] Correct line numbers in error source fragment view
 * ![60607] Ensure that !MySQLDatabase::tableList() always returns an array
 * ![60606] Fix error in Geoip when REMOTE_ADDR isn't set
 * ![60605] Include full traces in unit test failures, for easier debugging
 * ![60604] Removed unnecessary chatter from test runner
 * ![60603] Improved db/build output for CLI
 * ![60602] Removed junk output from stderr
 * ![60601] Added Debug::get_rendered_backtrace() for rendering backtraces from other contexts (such as exceptions)
 * ![60597] Improved performance of testrunner so that it doesn't create a new database for each test, instead only once
per test run.
 * ![60592] Removed warning when session_regenerate_id can't be set.  It's not strictly necessary and just causes
testing headaches
 * ![60586] Passed controller argument to !ChangedPasswordForm constructor
 * ![60582] Fixed !MemberAuthenticator::authenticationFailedUnknownUser code
 * ![60581] Improve CLI use of Debugging tools and test execution.
 * ![60579] Removed code that used 2nd arg as HTTP_HOST value, in favour of more robust $_FILE_TO_URL_MAPPING
 * ![60578] Add checks to see if REMOTE_ADDR is set before making use of it.
 * ![60577] Improvements to better allow for CLI-based testing
 * ![60575] Ensure that IP-based security can't be bypassed if an IP address isn't set.
 * ![60572] Improved !DataObjectTest to use more helpful assertions
 * ![60571] Blocked [47113].
 * ![60570] Merged [47110]: Hack fix for an email validation problem. Needs better solution.
 * ![60569] Blocked [47109].
 * ![60568] Merged [47108]: Ajax requests no longer trigger the audit trail hook in !LeftAndMain::init.
 * ![60567] Merged [47107]: Added audit logging hook.
 * ![60563] Fixed bug in Requirements::clear()
 * ![60561] Blocked [47106].
 * ![60560] Merged [47105]: Fixed a typo.
 * ![60558] Blocked [47104].
 * ![60557] Merged [47103]: !MemberTableField.js now uses named sheets.
 * ![60556] Merged [47102]: Optimization for Behaviour sheets that allows you to provide a unique identifier so that
duplicate sheets aren't applied twice.
 * ![60555] Changed Debug::loadErrorHandlers to use value returned by error_reporting() rather than E_ALL. This way, the
user can adjust the error handler screens with the error_reporting function.
 * ![60548] Merged [47101]: Adds class=action to action cells in !MemberTableField.
 * ![60546] Merged [47094]: Fixes Session IP addresses in reverse order.
 * ![60544] Blocked [47093].
 * ![60543] Refactored [47092]: Add !TableListField::getCastedValue
 * ![60536] Merged [47091]: Added Round and !NiceRound to Float.
 * ![60529] Refactored [47088]: File::getFullPath now compares the filename with Director::baseFolder and returns
filename if the filename stars with Director::baseFolder.
 * ![60526] Blocked [47084]: Needs refactoring for new Sapphire code which provides similar functionality.
 * ![60522] Refactored [47082]: Modified Member::mapInCMSGroups to make use of CMSMain::providePermissions.
 * ![60515] Merged [47081]: Modified construction of manifest to allow custom definition of MANIFEST_FILE constant
filename in _config.php.
 * ![60514] Merged [47080]: Fix for pagination when using customSourceItems in !TableListField.
 * ![60512] Merged [47079]: Fix for template logic.
 * ![60511] Refactored [47078]: !AccessLogEntry will be created via an object extension.
 * ![60510] Blocked [47074] to [47077].
 * ![60509] Merged [47074]: Added register and unregister as aliases to Authenticator.
 * ![60508] Merged [47073]: Fix for pagination in !TableListField::sourceItems.
 * ![60507] Blocked [47072]: Changeset needs to be refactored so Session logging isn't strictly required.
 * ![60506] Merged [47071]: Added Session::get_timeout.
 * ![60505] Blocked [47070].
 * ![60504] Merged [47069]: Replaced explicit calls to !AccessLogEntry::create with more flexible calls to extensions.
!AccessLogEntry to be refactored into separate module.
 * ![60498] Refactored [47068]: Member::logOut now calls memberLoggedOut on any extensions on Member.
 * ![60491] Blocked [47065] to [47067].
 * ![60490] Merged [47064]: Set 'show' as the default action for !ComplexTableField.
 * ![60488] Blocked [47062].
 * ![60487] Merged [47061].
 * ![60486] Merged [47060].
 * ![60485] Merged [47059]: Session expiry times can now be set based on the client's IP address.
 * ![60481] Blocked [47057] to [47058].
 * ![60480] Merged [47056]: Adds unique identifier when creating Behaviour rule sheets to prevent duplicate behaviours
from being applied repeatedly.
 * ![60479] Merged [47055]: Modified !FormResponse to append Behaviour rules last.
 * ![60478] Blocked [47047] to [47054].
 * ![60477] Merged [47046]: Minor optimisation to !BankAccountField and added methods to get specific parts of the
account number.
 * ![60474] Reverted accidental change
 * ![60473] Included regression test
 * ![60470] Ability to lock down comments to logged-in members only
 * ![60469] Merged [47044]: Introduces modifications to Sapphire's form handling that allows it to ignore fields marked
as Disabled when saving the contents of a form's fields to a !DataObject.
 * ![60468] Merged changes from 2.2.2-assets - everything except the asset refactoring
 * ![60448] Allow object-methods to be used as columns in !TableListField
 * ![60446] Fixed js error when defaultAction isn't set
 * ![60442] Reverted Hierarchy::extraDBFields() because it interfered with normal generation of the site hierarchy. 
Note that children(), stageChildren(), and liveChildren() cannot be simply labelled as relations because they are
methods with a different semantic meaning.  I recommend the use of something similar to  to enable access to information
beyond relations via the data formatters
 * ![60440] Refactored [47041] to [47043]: Moved to project-specific !PhoneNumberField.
 * ![60437] Refactored [47040]: Functionality moved to project-specific Member subclass.
 * ![60433] Merged [47039]: Introduces custom actions to !TableListField and !ComplexTableField. By default, the show,
edit and delete actions are included.
 * ![60431] API Change: Turned Requirements::clear_combined_files() into Requirements::delete_combined_files() and
Requirements::clear_combined_files()
 * ![60428] Fix test runner to show errors as well as assertion failures
 * ![60427] Updated !SecurityTest to use new !FunctionalTest system consistently
 * ![60426] Added !FunctionalTest->autoFollowRedirection, so that redirection following can be disabled on a test by
test basis
 * ![60425] Improved error checking in !TestSession
 * ![60411] Fixed call to badly named static method
 * ![60394] Update !SecurityTest to use the !FunctionalTest base-class
 * ![60391] Improved robustness of !MemberTest
 * ![60390] Improved Debug::backtrace() output
 * ![60385] Blocked [47034] to [47038].
 * ![60383] Merged [47033]: !TableListField::performReadonlyTransformation now sets show permission.
 * ![60377] Added argument checking to Controller::handleRequest()
 * ![60375] Set [REQUEST_URI] in cli-script for better error reporting
 * ![60362] Fixed URL handling for /dev after merge from branches/roa to trunk
 * ![60355] Fixed sake to pass cli-script error levels through
 * ![60354] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60353] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60352] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60348] Blocked [47098] to [47100].
 * ![60347] Blocked [47020] to [47026].
 * ![60346] Blocked [47012] to [47014].
 * ![60345] Blocked [47006].
 * ![60343] Blocked [46198].
 * ![60342] Blocked [46193].
 * ![60341] Blocked [47029].
 * ![60340] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60339] Blocked [47027].
 * ![60338] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60336] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60335] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60334] Blocked [46974] to [47005].
 * ![60333] Blocked [46960] to [46972].
 * ![60332] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60331] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60330] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60329] Blocked [46953] to [46958].
 * ![60328] Blocked [46951].
 * ![60327] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60326] Blocked [46262] to [46288].
 * ![60324] Blocked [46261].
 * ![60323] Committing missing mergeinfo for [47028] for !ManifestBuilder and !ComplexTableField.ss
 * ![60322] Blocked [46192] and [46197]
 * ![60321] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60320] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60319] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60314] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60311] Merged [47028]: Encountered a problem with Form::formHtmlContent not always including javascript validation,
so added a call to includeJavascriptValidation on the validator in Form::formHtmlContent. Also modified Validator to
notify the form that the client-side validation !JavaScript has already been included. This way it isn't included twice.
 * ![60307] Merged [47019]: Actual merge in [60309]
 * ![60303] Committing merge info for [60309]: Merge was performed manually.
 * ![60302] Merged [47018]: Some additions made to use Object::create to allow !MemberTableField to deal with subclasses
of Member. Also merged a modification to !MemberTableField::__construct that allowed greater control over the details
form's fields (defaults to same behaviour as trunk), and !MemberTableField::!DetailForm, although this might need to be
removed later.
 * ![60290] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60289] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60287] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60281] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60279] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60278] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![60276] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60268] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60266] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60265] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60264] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60261] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60259] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60258] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60257] Merged [47017]: Modified behaviour for !MemberTableField popups so that the behaviour is applied if the
Security section uses a subclass of !MemberTableField rather than an instance of !MemberTableField.
 * ![60256] Committing missing svn:mergeinfo for [46973].
 * ![60255] Merged [47016]: Used Object::create to allow !SecurityAdmin to use subclasses of !MemberTableField to list
members.
 * ![60236] removed duplicate !RestfulServerTest files, they're already in /cms (merge error)
 * ![60235] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60234] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60233] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60232] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60231] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60230] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60229] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60228] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60227] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60226] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60225] (manually merged from branches/roa)
 * ![60215] blocked r54568
 * ![60214] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60212] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60211] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60209] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60208] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60207] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60206] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60205] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60204] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60203] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![60179] Merged [47015]: Moved call to !DataObject::write and makes use of !DataObject::destroy.
 * ![60178] Improved behaviour of !ViewableData_Iterator.  It's not clear why, but this was causing a bug on our build
slave.  Maybe a PHP version difference?
 * ![60175] Merged [47011]: Additional CSS for !GenericDataAdmin.
 * ![60173] Merged [47010]: Modified !GenericDataAdmin::buildResultFieldValue to accept relations of the form:
obj1.obj2...objN->!MethodCall, similar to !TableListField_Item.
 * ![60169] Merged [47009]: Calls bind using Prototype Event.
 * ![60168] Merged [47008]: Disables the create button while creating a new entry with !GenericDataAdmin.
 * ![60167] Merged [47007]: Fix to prevent !GenericDataAdmin setting a status on a new record and thus overwritting a
data field named 'Status'. Includes a fix for onclick on Ajax buttons if event is not passed.
 * ![60162] Merged [46973]: Notes a correction that will need to be made in the future.
 * ![60137] Blocked [46952]
 * ![60123] Merged [46959]: Summary values calculated on server are shown in the summary row when displaying a
!ComplexTableField.
 * ![60108] Merged [46289]: Committing the missing meta-data for sapphire.
 * ![59969] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![59927] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![59925] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![59923] (blocked bidirectional merge from trunk into branches/roa)
 * ![59922] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![59920] (merged from branches/roa. use "svn log -c `<changeset>` -g `<module-svn-path>`" for detailed commit
message)
 * ![59897] r52080, r52101, r52102 (merged from branches/roa)
 * ![59890] r52079 (merged from branches/roa)
 * ![59876] Merged [46959]: !ComplexTableField.ss now includes server-generated values in summary row cells.
 * ![59875] Merged [46289]: Spaces in SCRIPT_FILENAME are now replaced with underscores.
