# Upgrading to SilverStripe 2.2.0

#### Changelog

See [full changelog](http://open.silverstripe.com/wiki/ChangeLog/2.2.0)

#### General

##### Login Form

Check that you have a Layout/Page.ss file for your site, or alternately have a Security_login.ss template.
Your template file needs a $Form variable for it to work. This is where the login form gets included. Without either of
these, the Security/login form will be blank.


##### Form Actions HTML/CSS

Check css/js and subclassed templates of Form.ss for changed markup. A global search for "p.Actions" should cover both
js/css changes.

	:::html
	// before
	<p class="Actions">
	// after
	<div class="Actions">

See http://open.silverstripe.com/changeset/43562

##### Form Security Token

There has been a hidden 'SecurityID' field added to SilverStripe generated forms by default, with the purpose to stop
CRSF attacks. If you wish your form not to be tied to a specific session, and able to be able to be executed by URL
without the SecurityID, you can disable it on your form with

	:::php
	$form->disableSecurityToken();


The other issue to be aware of is constructing the URL to execute the form manually, as is done in javascript sometimes.
If the security token is enabled, you need to add its value to the URL, eg:

	:::js
	updateURL += ($('SecurityID') ? '&SecurityID=' + $('SecurityID').value : '');


##### Custom Section in CMS

Special attention will need to be given to custom sections on a case-by-case basis.

As we have changed the design of the CMS, the top bar for your custom sections is no longer needed. We've moved the
buttons that it once held down to the bottom.

{{:cms22screenie.jpg|:cms22screenie.jpg}}


##### Classes added to 2.2 that may conflict

Sitemap.php
