## Feature Changes

### CMS image alignment changes

Image alignment elements have been changed slightly. There are no longer any <DIV> elements created with the images using the insert image toolbar in the CMS.

All of these selectors in your typography.css are affected:

*  div.image.left
*  div.image.right
*  div.image.leftAlone
*  div.image.center

They need to be changed to the following (respectively):

*  img.left
*  img.right
*  img.leftAlone
*  img.center

Here's an example of how the default Blackcandy theme was changed:

[http://open.silverstripe.org/changeset/75917/themes/blackcandy/branches/2.3/blackcandy/css/typography.css](http://open.silverstripe.org/changeset/75917/themes/blackcandy/branches/2.3/blackcandy/css/typography.css)

### Translatable Datamodel

The datamodel for the Translatable extension was changed from multiple language tables to multiple rows for each translated record in the original table. We've also introduced the concept of "Translation groups", which means not every translated record has to exist in a "master language". Please review our updated documentation on how to [enable Translatable](http://doc.silverstripe.com/doku.php?id=multilingualcontent).

If you are upgrading an existing database with existing translations, you'll need to run our [Migration Script](http://doc.silverstripe.com/doku.php?id=multilingualcontent#migrating_from_2.1_datamodel) before using the database. 

For in-depth discussion of the schema changes and translation groups, please refer to our developer mailinglist: [1](http://groups.google.com/group/silverstripe-dev/browse_thread/thread/91e26e1f78d3c1b4/bd276dd5bbc56283?lnk=gst&q=translatable#bd276dd5bbc56283) and [2](http://groups.google.com/group/silverstripe-dev/browse_thread/thread/575001296360a1cc/e3268963c6d8cef7?lnk=gst&q=translatable#e3268963c6d8cef7).

### Translatable property selection

It is no longer possible to exclude certain properties on a DataObject from being translatable. This is a limitation by our database schema choice. See [discussion](http://groups.google.com/group/silverstripe-dev/browse_thread/thread/2b3df26361d17119/be8f9f08a797bd43?lnk=gst&q=translatable#be8f9f08a797bd43) on our mailinglist and ticket [#3722](http://open.silverstripe.com/ticket/3722).

### Translatable URLs

Every page is now forced to have a unique URL, different languages can't be switched by appending a ''?lang=xx'' property any longer. Languages don't have to be set in sessions or cookies, as every request is able to determine the language for the remaining site by inspecting the URL. Unique URLs are enforced because of SEO concerns, problematic caching on proxies, browser and framework-level, as well as difficult debugging with session states. See [discussion](http://groups.google.com/group/silverstripe-dev/browse_thread/thread/17908f7318decfac/0c2b2e2a07ea6955?lnk=gst&q=translatable+url#0c2b2e2a07ea6955) on our mailinglist.

## API Changes

### Important, but simple, ModelAdmin change

The configuration statics for ModelAdmin have been changed from protected to public, so that ''Object::get_static()'' can access them.  In particular the following static variables have been changed.

*  ''ModelAdmin::$managed_models''
*  ''ModelAdmin::$collection_controller_class''
*  ''ModelAdmin::$record_controller_class''
*  ''ModelAdmin::$model_importers''
*  ''ModelAdmin::$page_length''

Because of this, you will need to change the static definitions in your ModelAdmin subclasses.  For example, you should change this:

	:::php
	class MyCatalogAdmin extends ModelAdmin {
	   
	  protected static $managed_models = array(
	      'Product',
	      'Category'
	  );
	 
	  ... 
	}


To this:

	:::php
	class MyCatalogAdmin extends ModelAdmin {
	   
	  public static $managed_models = array(
	      'Product',
	      'Category'
	  );
	 
	  ... 
	}



### Deprecated Translatable::enable()

 * Use ''Object::add_extension('SiteTree','Translatable'')'' instead of ''Translatable::enable()''
 * Use ''Object::remove_extension('SiteTree','Translatable'')'' instead of ''Translatable::disable()''
*  Use ''Object::has_extension('SiteTree','Translatable'')'' instead of ''Translatable::is_enabled()''

### Deprecated Translatable "lang" methods
